I'm ready okay Tom how are you good Joe
great to meet you you too I've been deep
into your book for the last two weeks
and will tell everybody what it's called
right off the bat it's called chaos
Charles Manson the CIA and the secret
history of the 60s and I think it's safe
to say that everything that most people
believe that happened during the Manson
murders is a tiny fraction of what was
going on behind the scenes and this is
what you have mean you've essentially
been obsessed with this for how many
years would take you to do this
yeah not obsessed by choice it kind of
happened but in the end exactly 20 years
we turned in the final manuscript I
think a day to the 20th year and this
wasn't a personal obsession with yours
you know writing an article let's fill
people in that yeah the beginning was I
was in between magazines and not working
and I got a call from an editor I'd
worked with for years and she was a
premiere magazine at that point which
was a monthly movie magazine and she
wanted me to do a story on the upcoming
30th anniversary of the Manson murders
which was 1999 happened in 69 and I said
yeah no no thanks you know never been
interested hasn't the story been written
you know death and she said look once we
talk about it you're gonna see Manson
comes up much more often in popular
culture than you're aware of just trust
me on that and I think that if you look
into it you'll find an interesting story
I go but you know what about the 30th
anniversary there's no angle and she
goes you've done it before you'll find
an angle we'd worked together a lot and
that began to spiral into kind of
madness that finally ended last last
year and March when we turn the
manuscript in that is so crazy that it
took that long when AGGA zine shut down
five years later so you never got the
you never got anything printed in the
magazine well no I mean that's also a
little bit of a complicated story too I
got an assignment to do a normal feature
which is the
three months three and a half months so
I got it on the day after my 40th
birthday which is the time in any
person's life we were kind of
reevaluating things anyway
so I thought I needed the money and I
needed a job and I knew that I could get
into premiere magazine as a contributor
on the masthead which meant I yearly
contract because all the people from my
prior magazine had moved over and once I
had a good story there and this would
have been the first then I'd be said so
I agreed to do it
and long story very long story short
after a month or two when the story kind
of started breaking open and I started
finding holes and the official narrative
in pursuing them I had met with the
editor-in-chief Jim Meg's and he agreed
once he saw all of the documentation I
had and the evidence which was just you
know a small portion of what I ended up
having in the end he agreed to blow the
deadline for what would have been the
anniversary issue of August 99 and he
started contracting me by the month and
that continued for a year and a half all
I did was report the story on premiers
dime he lost his job because of you well
that was kind of what was whispered
around the offices I never heard that
you know that was ever substantiate it
I'm a little worried that it had
something to do with it he went on to a
career that was fine anyway but when the
new guy came in he demanded the story
right away I mean I understood that and
at that point I got a book agent through
a friend and my book agent got me out of
my obligation to premiere so premiere
essentially paid for you to start your
book yeah a lot of money oh my goodness
yeah and that's I'm actually because it
was resolved not in the courts but we've
all had to sign non-disclosure
so I didn't get entirely away with it
for nothing but at that point though
that was I think 2001
late mm then I was on my own I had to
write a proposal and sell the proposal
as a book so that happened next and
finally in 2005 and when we took the
proposal out it was book length it was
220 pages and my agent who was big shot
at ICM who was also kind of what I would
do it I was seduced people into this
story and get them as I was as I was I
pretend I'm a guy and you're trying to
pitch me this book in the beginning in
the first years just that the trial that
had occurred that had been prosecuted by
Vincent Bugliosi had a lot of
malfeasance in it by the prosecution I
was able to document that they planted a
former prosecutor on the defense team to
sabotage the defense I found out that
two or three of the principal witnesses
including Terry Melcher who played a big
part in this and will probably talk
about that at some point lied on the
stand
you know suborn themselves in a murder
trial and if you commit perjury in a
murder trial you could be convicted of
murder I mean you could be sentenced to
a murder you could get a murder sentence
too
because of that so there was about a
dozen of those and none of them happened
all at once so if you committed perjury
during a murder trial you could be
sentenced for murder for the same amount
of time that someone would get sentence
if they murdered somebody you are
subject to an actual capital you could
be elect you could be sent to the chair
Wow and the five people who were
convicted of murder in the first trial
once had I been around and able to prove
this in the early 70s Vincent Bugliosi
and the three people who lied on the
stand in a material way you know in a
very important way they all could have
been tried for that perjury and
sentenced to the same or given the same
sentence that the people who had gotten
the death sentence now I told you that I
just got to the 11th chapter of your
book right and
essentially what I'm getting so far I
haven't finished a book but what I'm
getting so far is there was some sort of
a CIA program where they were explain
how they did it they they infiltrated
these hippie communities and they
allowed Charles Manson over and over and
over again to get out of jail they knew
that he was committing all these crimes
and instead of incorporating careful
when we say they who's they
yeah we have to kind of break it all
down let's let's break it all down one
of the other things I found out that was
very significant was that Manson had a
parole officer his first parole officer
who kind of had given him a
get-out-of-jail-free card for the first
year after Manson was released in prison
and it was miss Rogers Matthew yeah and
he was a criminologist in the Bay Area
Manson violated his parole the day that
he was released in Los Angeles and this
is one of the you think it's a little
lie but it's an important lie that Vince
Puleo see presented not just in at trial
but also in his book a trial it's much
more serious
he changed the narrative he said Manson
had been given permission to travel to
San Francisco from LA when Manson was
paroled Manson hadn't been given that
permission he just showed up there they
originally were gonna violate him set
him right back to prison and someone
stepped in and took care of that and let
Manson stay in San Francisco and he was
assigned to Roger Smith it took about a
year and a half but through a Freedom of
Information Act process I got his
federal parole file and those were the
kind of seeds of how I found out that
Manson had this immunity from
prosecution for the two years he was out
of prison from 67 until the murders
occurred in the summer of 69 hoo hoo I'm
sorry to interrupt but who was Smith
doing this for who was giving him the
instructions to continue to let Manson
out and he can in to continue to
moderate well that's the problem I
didn't get the whole file and the file I
got had redactions he would report to
the head office and they would give him
instructions and then he would violate
those instructions and there'd be no
repercussions for him
or for Manson for instance Manson was
arrested in July of 1967 three or four
months after he got out of prison when
he was under Roger Smith supervision for
interfering with an officer who was
trying to arrest one of his first young
followers Ruthie amaura house who was 15
and he was put in jail pled out so he
got a three-day sentence a new probation
sentence as well and all that was hidden
like it's not in Bulli o'seas book the
the parole officer Roger Smith a week
later wrote to the head office that
Manson was doing fine and he actually
recommended that Manson be allowed to go
to Mexico and work in Mexico and the
head parole office in the United States
since his federal wrote back and they
said that's insane he was supposed the
job that he was going to do in Mexico
was surveying soil for insect
insecticides I mean had nothing to do
with and I have all these documents
showing this who was hiring him Charles
Manson to serve a soil it was a company
and Nevada which disappeared a couple
years later it was a bullshit company I
believe so yeah how do you think they
were doing down there I see that's it I
don't like to speculate I can't prove it
all I know is just the fact that his
parole officer asked to send him not
only to Mexico but to the country that
Manson had been deported from in 1959
the last time he was a free man he had
violated his parole then he was arrested
in Mexico right he was arrested in
Mexico and brought over by the federales
and given over to federal custody for I
was a drug violation and some other
stuff so why would his parole officer
send him back to this place three months
after he'd been released and how do you
supervise somebody who's in another
country can I make a summary just for
people who like what the fuck is going
on right now essentially what you're
saying is that Charles Manson was a part
of some sort of a program yes and that
through this program they were using him
and using with LSD and all the members
of the family they were turning them
violent and why why do you think they
were doing this again this is where I
got a real it in a little I have to be
real careful about not saying anything
that I haven't been able to prove
understand what I proven is that he was
getting leniency from the federal
government and the law enforcement first
in San Francisco that year the person
who represented the federal government
there was his parole officer Roger Smith
a federal parole officer who was giving
him llenan see Roger was also doing drug
research at the haight-ashbury free
medical clinic which opened in June of
67 Manson during that period turned into
the Manson that were familiar with today
you know the monster the embodiment of
evil as Ben's bully OC called him the
Guru who could control the minds of
these followers so he would come into
the clinic to see Roger well he went for
two reasons it was a free clinic it was
at the height of the Summer of Love the
summer of 67 and he would come in with
the women the girls here about five or
six followers then and they would walk
behind him they wouldn't speak unless he
spoke to them any command he issued
towards them they would follow and they
became very well known around the clinic
and they were there principally for
Manson to see Roger for his weekly
parole appointments and then the girls
were going in for STDs and there were
some pregnancies and stuff and they were
getting free treatment that was you the
summer that the Manson family formed and
then they left in late 67 early 68 and
migrated down to Los Angeles and became
this killer cult it's crazy how quickly
this all happened it's insane don't
understand we're talking about two years
we're talking about 67 Manson is in
haight-ashbury 69 the tate-labianca
murders and then the trial and then
everything else yeah yeah and so you
brought up MKULTRA yes and Kay ultra was
a government program
run by the Central Intelligence Agency
originally started as something called
Bluebird in 1948-49 morphed into
artichoke and then in 1952 became
MKULTRA it was a mind-control program a
brainwashing program the CIA was trying
to learn how to control people's
behavior without their knowledge now
this is all came out and Senate and
congressional hearings in the 70s it was
exposed but nobody knew about it until
1974 when Seymour Hersh the New York
Times reporter reported on the front
page of the paper so their main
objective was to commit or to create
what they called hypno program assassins
people who would kill on command
popularly known as Manchurian candidates
after a book that was written 1962 and
later became a movie and then a movie
again the people would be through drugs
and hypnotism the objective was to get
people to go and commit an act of murder
against their moral code and have no
memory of their programming and be
amnesiac even of the act after the fact
often that was just one of that was a
main goal but they were also trying to
create couriers people you know military
people that they could implant messages
send them you know across dangerous
areas weather or at that time it was the
Vietnam War and deliver messages and
then had them wiped from their memory in
case they were captured they had all
kinds of objectives so Roger Smith was
supervising Manson when he became
exactly where he was able to do exactly
what the MKULTRA program have been
trying to create and do for at that
point about 15 17 years when it was all
exposed in the 70s and there were these
hearings first the Rockefeller
Commission hearings and the church
hearings and then finally senators Ted
Kennedy and Daniel anyway held hearings
the CIA admitted that they had done this
but they no one would say exactly what
did all the records have been destroyed
when the two people who ran at Richard
Helms who had become the director of the
CIA in the 60s and dr. Sidney Gottlieb
who was kind of the mad scientist who
had supervised all that all that they
had safe houses in San Francisco New
York Los Angeles where they would
experiment on people that were lured and
into these apartments and houses that
were either look like brothels or hippie
communes or whatever and the people who
are working at the Haight Ashbury free
medical clinic that was run by another
Smith which makes it a little confusing
but dr. David Smith who founded it he
had given an office to a scientist named
jolly Wes Lewis Jay West who was when
when the hearings occurred in the 70s
identified as a top MKULTRA researcher
he was an academic come out of the
military had been at the oklahoma
oklahoma university university of
oklahoma sorry and then UCLA running the
psychiatric divisions he denied ever
being involved in MKULTRA and this was
one of the moments i think it was 2001
when you know things really kind of
shook the course of my reporting was I
learned that West had been at the same
place that Manson was in the Haight in
the summer that Manson became exactly
what the CIA was trying to create and I
knew actually I'd interviewed West about
seven years before for our story I did
about celebrity stalkers and people who
were obsessed with stars and then only
to kill them or try to kill them and he
was an expert in violence hypnotism
brainwashing and he was a chair of the
psychiatry department at UCLA at that
point he was dead when his name came up
in the Manson's story and there wasn't a
lot of I mean I guess there was a lot of
Google then or a little bit but when I
did a little research I found out that
there have been these allegations that
he'd been involved in MKULTRA he always
denied it he was never prosecuted never
even investigated he went to his grave
threatening to sue anybody that said he
would have anything to do with this kind
of
program again through another long story
but I got access to his files which had
been left at UCLA and never they had
never been processed when I called and
when I made the request it took him two
or three months to process the papers I
went through them through the whole
summer looking for a needle in a
haystack
and it was intuition gut I just thought
there might be something there
and sure enough I eventually found it it
was correspondence between jolly West
and Sidney Gottlieb the doctor that ran
MKULTRA beginning in 1953 about Kentucky
inductive experiments on people without
their knowledge to get them to have
amnesia 'kz amnesia of the axe after
they were programmed and everything that
he had been accused of and denied he did
not only did he do it he created the
blueprint for the whole program with
Godley the fact that all these kind of
interesting research programs merged at
The Hague at the clinic and then Manson
came out of it with the power to do
exactly what the MKULTRA have been
trying to create for up to that point I
thought was worth investigating further
and that's why I kept going and going
and going they did a lot of crazy shit
back then are you aware of operation mid
like midnight climax that those were the
safe houses in San Francisco that was
the brothel version yeah yeah where they
they lured these jars into these
brothels and then dosed them up with LSD
and studied them
yeah George hunter white was the head
CIA guy and he would sit by the two-way
or one-way mirror and watch them that
the John's would be dosed with LSD they
tried aerosols or just drinks different
things and then they would study their
behaviors aerosols
yeah aerosol sprays really yeah but that
would get the prostitutes to them no no
the prostitutes to get them in there and
then they go to the bathroom or
something yeah again the problem is the
records are so scant because Helms
Quarter gottlieb to destroy all the
records in 1973 when the two men left
the agency and the only reason anybody
ever discovered that
existed was a whistleblower somebody who
used to work for the State Department
who remembered that there were records
in a warehouse and they were just
financial records from the beginning of
the program in 52 until the end and the
possible end in 73 and it was just
financial records of where research took
place how much was spent what kind of
equipment was bought but nothing about
the content the guy that found that
ended up testifying to Congress and
working with Seymour Hersh to expose it
was named John marks he wrote the first
book about MKULTRA that came out in the
mid to late 70s called the search for
The Manchurian Candidate and after he
wrote his book he never you know he
spoke did a little bit of a tour and
then retreated into obscurity and never
would do an interview again until I
approached him in the early 2000s and
when I told him what I had what I had
found in West files these documents he
agreed to meet with me at his townhouse
in Washington DC and he told me he said
the reason I stopped talking or writing
about this was people were camping out
on my front lawn you know telling me
that they'd been victims of MKULTRA he
goes I couldn't go anywhere my whole
life became crazy because everybody
thought that they were subject to this
because nobody knew they did these drug
tests on prisoners hospital patients
John's hippies people that had no idea
that this was going on for 25 years so
Marx became the authority so he had
never given an interview till he met
with me and when he looked at my
documents at that point I think I had
about 10 or 12 or 15 pages that grew
eventually because I kept going back to
the files and getting more he said it
was the most unredacted uncensored
account of what the real objectives were
what was really being done he'd never he
said if I had had that my whole book
would have been different so that's one
of the problems about saying well how
much did they do or how far did they go
there's barely any record and that's
another reason it took me 20 years
because I was trying to find out whether
or not Wes had actually you know
active with Manson and other girls I
mean I knew he was in the same facility
I know that everybody that worked there
because I interviewed everybody that was
alive most of them were still alive back
in the 90s and early 2000s when I did
this they all said oh yeah Charlie was
you know we knew it was Charlie and the
girls they come in every day or every
few days to see Roger and and Wes was
there recruiting subjects now West while
he was there that summer had opened
something called what he called the
haight-ashbury project and in his
correspondence and papers that I found
he called it a laboratory disguised as a
hippie crash pad and and just like the
operation midnight safe house they call
them safe houses which were disguised as
birther you know bird ellos and that
type of thing or brothels these this was
an apartment that was decked out or as
he called a tricked out to look like a
communal hippie place he had six
graduate students and I have his letters
to them before they came to work in this
he goes grow your hair long wear jeans
just like hippies and lure people in
there so they ran that for the summer of
67 and Wes was getting people from that
Haight Ashbury free medical clinic on
Clayton Street and sending them around
the corner to Frederick Street to
participate in that Lord and I got the
diaries of some of the graduate students
who were there and they all and these
Diaries said we have no idea what we're
really supposed to be doing here we feel
like this whole thing is a cover for
something else
what does Jolley want why is he making
us bring these people in so doing that
to graduate students telling them to
bring people in and drug them up imagine
telling them well some of them like I'm
sure because they were also you know
encouraged to use LSD I'm sure I mean
imagine being a graduate student and
this is your project on people I mean
that sets up even if you leave that
program and go on to do legitimate work
the ethical foundations of your career
are set up in such a strange way you're
manipulating people against their
knowledge
well they didn't know who they were
doing it for that's why they were always
questioning it so you know I don't know
how I found one or two of them after and
they were very careful talking to me I'm
sure that ya felt like they were gonna
go to jail
well that's the thing yeah if any of
these experiments or whatever was going
on was older than a death there's no
statute of limitations on murder right
right I mean that's one of the biggest
disappointments of my book is that
people like West aren't alive you know
to answer for the to answer to this and
it was really frustrating for me because
again his name was on the front page of
the New York Times in 1977 when they had
the major hearings about MKULTRA and it
identified him as the head of the
psychiatry department at UCLA very
prominent doctoral researcher and he
said he had nothing to do with that he'd
never used LSD on humans and he wouldn't
he said they had asked him and he said
no I have all these letters between him
and the guy who was running the program
describing how they're gonna do it hide
it from his colleagues when he started
it he started at Lackland Air Force Base
he was running the psychiatry department
at the hospital there in 1952 when he
was there running that hospital that's
when he started his experiments on
prisoners human subjects and one letter
to Gottlieb he says eventually we have
to take these experiments out into the
field oh Jesus
exactly what does that mean well I if
you haven't gotten it through a chapter
11 yet you haven't gotten to the Jimmy
shaver case no I haven't a year after
maybe Jamie did a year after Wes
contracted with the CIA to do these
experiments July 4th 1954 a
three-year-old girl went missing from
the parking lot of a bar at about 11:00
or 12:00 at night now her parents was a
heat wave
they couldn't sleep they went to the bar
they brought their two kids they let
them play in the parking lot at midnight
the little girl disappeared they
organized a search party about three or
four hours later they went to the gravel
pit
and to arrow to airman had caught our
two itinerant guys had called the police
the local sheriff and said there's a guy
here that wandered out of the brush with
scratches and blood no shirt and he
doesn't know how he got here or who he
is the police came his name was Jimmy
shaver he was an airman they did a
search and they found the little girl's
body not too far away and she had been
raped and murdered by this guy who had
no memory of doing it the guy had no
history of violence he had a couple kids
and he was a flight instructor at the
school he'd been in the military for a
number of years I think it was in his
early 30s well guess who became his
psychiatrist in preparation for the
trial jolly West who inserted himself
into the case and then extracted his
memory from him using sodium pentathol
where he admitted to the the murderer
now in the context of what we found out
West was doing and what his objectives
were at that same time it raises huge
questions about this was an experiment
gone wrong you know that he was part of
one of these experiments at Lackland Air
Force Base where he was signed up during
the trial it came out that he had had
treatment for severe migraines
experimental treatment at Lackland
that's another you know a smaller sub
chapter in the book but does it describe
what kind of experimental treatment he
was no no because nobody I mean I have
all the testimony there was actually
read a trial a retrial and sentencing
and every time it came up it was really
frustrating because he never testified
so they it was either his wife or his
mother who would talk about it was
mostly his mother saying well all I knew
was they wanted him to be involved in
this two-year study to try to relieve
his migraines he would have such
horrible migraines he would put his head
in buckets of ice water
the people who described encountering
him that night when he was arrested and
immediately taken out of the sheriff's
custody by the military police
brought to Lachlan and then back to the
sheriff's he was in a trance
the doctors tested him for alcohol
because they thought well maybe he's
drunk here no I just a little bit of
alcohol in his system but he wasn't
drunk and after the fact they found out
that he had well I mean I don't want to
get into this because it's really
getting into the weeds but he had
hallucinate 'add that this little girl
was a cousin who sexually abused him as
a child and he was trying to kill her
her name was Beth rainbow all this stuff
came out of the trial
Jolley west in 1955 sent a report to
sidney gottlieb which nobody had seen
and it was another document I found in
his files announcing that he had learned
how to develop the technology to remove
true memories and replace them with
false memories and a human subject
without their knowledge which was one of
the main goals the biggest goals of the
MKULTRA program and again when the CIA
when they had the hearings in the 70s
the CIA said nothing was successful
everything we try was a failure it was a
waste of money we shouldn't have done it
and not not just me but most experts
think that that was a cover that they
didn't want to admit that they had
developed these technologies that were
effective they also claimed that they
had released everything they had I found
the same report where West said that he
had learned how to replace true memories
with false ones without a person's
awareness but they had removed that from
the report and then released it to
Congress so that's a crime right there
you know so there's a lot of that stuff
in the book so the speculation is that
this guy through these experimental
treatments that they had dosed him up
with LSD and experimented using these
MKULTRA techniques and did to him and
induce some sort of well this is
speculation you know I'll go there okay
for this the guy had no history of
violence
never been arrested with stellar
upstanding citizen his only problem was
he had these horrible headaches all of a
sudden he shows up by a small girl's
body who been brutally murdered with no
memory of doing it a year earlier dr.
West who became a psychiatrist within a
week or two possibly had experiences
with him before but there was no record
oh when I tried to get the record from
the medical center at Lackland his file
his name was shaver I think it was sa 2s
I was missing so where shaver would have
been and the the medical records it was
gone so I couldn't find out whether he
had actually participated in any kind of
experimental program now so is the
speculation again it's a speculation
that he did commit the crime that he was
somehow another induced into committing
this crime yeah and again this is
speculation it's completely
circumstantial the objective was to get
people who would go out and do things
not even necessarily killed us that was
the ultimate goal but to do things
against their will against their moral
code right but how would they know that
this child would be there how would they
know no she wasn't targeted so was it
just that they'd put it into his head to
give something anyone yeah something
clicked and went wrong so it wasn't a
precise thing no I wasn't no no nobody
really knew what Ellis this was the very
early days of experimenting with LSD in
the in the early 1950s West was one of
the premier researchers in LSD but he
was still new to it he had actually come
out of he had first gained national
attention for being one of four or five
doctors who treated Korea and prisoners
of war who were returned to the United
States after they had made confessions
of spraying the Korean countryside with
illegal biological weapons the United
States said that we don't use that
that's against the Geneva codes and
these guys were brainwashed by the the
North Korean Chinese Soviets so when
they were brought back
after the war West and four other
psychiatrists were assigned to deprogram
them what a lot of researchers believe
is that they actually brainwashed them
into thinking they'd been brainwashed by
the Koreans where they actually were
telling the truth because there's a lot
of evidence that's come out as recently
as five six years ago that we did use
these weapons in Korea double-cross yeah
so is the speculation that Charlie
Manson was basically just sort of a
two-bit criminal who had spent most of
his life inside the system and had been
incarcerated for what half of his life
half of his life when he was released
about age 32 and 67 all federal
institutions - which was interesting
even bully OSI pointed that out in his
book first of all his mother was a
prostitute she kind of she would get
sent to jail for petty theft or
prostitution and she'd hand him off to
her parents or other people and by the
time he was 10 11 12 years old he was
stealing cars committing petty theft and
stuff so then he was sent to you know
juvenile detention centers and schools
reform schools all run by the federal
government and then when he committed
his first crimes as an adult which was
again car theft
the first crimes require that but when
he stole the cars he crossed state lines
so then it became a federal offense and
he got in prison with much more serious
sentences if it's a federal offense and
if it's a state and he do these long
sentences back to back to back and then
every time he was released he either
violated parole or probation and they
were actually strict with him in the 50s
and early well still 60 when he finally
went to prison for seven years
it wasn't until 67 when he came out that
all of a sudden was hands-off now what
do you think happened in prison did they
find him in prison well again I'll go
there with you okay
and I kind of lay out yeah what I do in
the book is and I get criticism for this
which we know was a good possibility
I lay out circumstantial evidence for a
case with proof of each circumstance but
when you put them all together that's
the hardest part is linking them finding
the bridges okay what I do is show what
the objectives were in either the
federal government's case through
MKULTRA and then other programs
COINTELPRO and and chaos and the
law-enforcement s-- in Los Angeles in
San Francisco at the time so MKULTRA
began in the in the federal prisons
experiments on prisoners famously or
notoriously Whitey Bulger I don't know
if you heard about this but a few years
ago it was revealed that Whitey Bulger
had been a part of MKULTRA
experimentation in the 50s when he was
incarcerated and after he was convicted
he was claiming that he believed that
all of his violence was a product of
what had happened to him in prison when
he was experimented upon with LSD
through these scientists so
theoretically Manson was in the prime
place where the experiments were
occurring in prisons before he was
released in 67 in federal institutions
they couldn't do it in the state indeed
Manson ever talk about any experiments
that took place turn no no no no he he
you know I actually have a his not only
his federal parole file which was the
hardest thing to get excited never been
released from 67 to 69 but I also have
the one prior to that from the 50s to
the 60s and all the correspondence and
he would talk about these doctors coming
in to examine him and he didn't trust
them and he didn't know what they were
doing and this was late fifties and
unfortunately he never had the first
names for the doctors there were two one
of them was dr. Hartman I can't remember
the other one's name
there was a Mortimer Hartman in Los
Angeles who was one of the early
psychiatrist using LSD in the 50s Carrie
Carrie Carrie grant was one of his
patients so theoretically
he could have come out of the program or
the experimentation that began there but
you know I hate to even I rather and
again it's hard to kind of synopsize all
this without showing all the
documentation and stuff of what was
going on and where he was and how
everything matches up but you'll see
that when you get through chapter 11
okay so I wish I wish I got to it but
you know rush to get to that far so 1967
he gets out of jail and he how long
before he hooks up with this clinic so
he got out in March of 67 the clinic
opened in June of 67 so just a few
months yeah well Roger Smith he was
actually living in Berkeley Manson was
and he got his first follower Mary
Brunner
and then two or three or four more and
then Roger was the one who suggested
that he go to the Haight to absorb the
vibes
he thought Manson might benefit from the
love and peace vibes that were happening
in the summer of love Roger Smith was
his parole officer in 67 but also was
his parole officer before that was that
proven well no Roger Smith's yeah well
his assistant you that's good you
remember that gal sue Dahlia told me she
was his assistant at the clinic at the
haight-ashbury free medical clinic when
he was running his antenna means study
in in 68 she said that Roger had told
her he met Manson when he was doing
probation work in Illinois in the early
sixties I eventually interviewed Roger
several times and Roger denied that and
when I went back to Gale she was shocked
she's like I can't believe he's denying
that that was a connection he met that's
why Manson was able to leave Los Angeles
he was sent to Roger Smith so Roger
could be his parole officer I was never
able to document that Manson had been in
Illinois except for three days from in
61 excuse me in 61 he was brought from
Mexico to Texas and then they brought
him to Los Angeles
to be violated in front of the judge
there and he did spend three days at
Joliet prison where Roger Smith worked
but he was there a year or two later so
that was one of the one of the many
frustrating moments where everything
made sense except for one but one very
important hole which was well they
weren't there at the same time at least
as far as the official record shows so
if Smith was a part of these experiments
and if Smith was also his parole officer
and did know him before he did the seven
years before he got out which is when
it's speculated that Manson was possibly
experimented on and Smith might have
been aware of the entire process of it
and was supervising him upon his release
yeah so that's why every time Manson got
arrested which should have just locked
him up they would just let him go yeah
and and Smith I mean to give you a
little background on Smith yes he told
me he called himself he goes I was a
rock Rock rib Republican from the
Midwest and I came out he went to
Berkeley to the school of Criminology to
become a criminologist I think in 65 or
66 he was getting his master's in his
PhD and his special area of study was in
the big beginning gangs
collected behavior and violence and then
how drugs would make some of these gangs
that he had people he was working with
infiltrate students infiltrate to get
information yeah this is in Oakland and
the ghettos in like 6566 when the
Panthers were forming then and 60 late
66 he decided to become a federal parole
officer while he was still writing his
dissertation and he got assigned to
something called the San Francisco
project which was an experimental
program run by the federal government to
see how different numbers of parole
clients caseloads for parole officer
were you know you know supervised it was
about recidivism so if you had
the lowest load was 20 clients the
largest was like 50 or 60 were you able
to super I mean you wouldn't think that
50 or 60 is gonna be a lot more
difficult but it always wasn't so Smith
joined that program where he's supposed
to be paying much more attention and
care to his clients because it's part of
a special program called the San
Francisco project and in fact he was I
mean he was he was seeing Manson more
than he was even officially supposed to
things you know it gets even crazier
after 68 he stopped being his parole
officer he was actually removed and he
said it was voluntarily so he could
focus more on his drugs and violence
research at the clinic Manson's 3 or 4
women followers got arrested in
Mendocino they had lured a couple young
boys into a house given them LSD there
nasan had sent them out up to Mendocino
to recruit people for the family the
three women were four women were
arrested one of the Mary Bruner had the
first baby with Manson in the group and
Roger Smith and his wife Carol went up
to Mendocino and petitioned the court to
take foster custody of the child until
Mary was until her case was resolved so
they were the foster parents of Manson's
son I mean everything was irregular
about this that actually that case is
pretty interesting so Mary Bruner and
Susan Atkins two women who actually
killed four Manson in 1969 were given
they were convicted of contributing to
the delinquency of minors illegal drug
possession and without a trial they pled
out and then there was what they call
the sentencing phase where a probation
officer is assigned to decide whether or
not they should be sent to prison or
given probation supervised probation so
I got access to their files Bruner's and
Atkins and in the file were
recommendations to the court by Roger
Smith and his wife saying these are good
women they shouldn't go to prison
Susan Atkins who you know stab Sharon
Tate is that proven because she said it
and then is it proven because Tex Watson
clearly was a murderer
yeah yeah yeah so she had said that text
did it she couldn't do it but this was
later on yeah her her first accounts
were that she did it and then when she
testified to the grand jury she said
that she didn't do it she held Sharon
while Tex stabbed her right
later in prison she said that she did do
it then she changed again she go back
and forth but she was pretty brutal and
Mary Brunner and Susan Atkins were given
probation instead of being sentenced
partially based on Roger Smith's
recommendation Roger Smith identified
himself as a former parole officer
you know with his expertise and he said
he had known both of them for two years
and which was also a lie he had only
known Susan he could have known Susan
for two years he knew her for about a
year he did know Mary pretty well and he
never disclosed that he was Manson's
parole officer and Manson is identified
in these same files as the person who
lured these women in to crimes that they
were his communal wives that they would
steal for him prostitutes themselves for
him and the other people that they
interviewed the probation officer argued
against it saying they're gonna go right
back to this guy who's down in Los
Angeles and continue the life of crime
but the judge released them now this was
they were doing Charley's bidding
according to the the record what they
were trying to do was recruit people
into the family yeah and so they would
offer them drugs and and and that sex
and a lot of women and bring them to
these parties and where they screwed up
is they got an underage boy who was
break out right and he was the son of oh
sure yeah legs turned into snakes yeah
that's really screwed up in that
situation and that's how they got arrest
at that time yeah and still they got
released yeah which is really crazy it's
like there's so many of these instances
where Charlie or members of the family
were arrested and then it seemed like
the police officers who were holding
them were being told hey you got to let
these guys go yeah there's this as a
higher the situation is above your
paygrade yeah well a real turning point
in my reporting was after I got access
to Manson's parole file and saw that I
mean in Heller skeller bully OC I think
describes two arrests that Manson got
released on technicalities
you know shoddy police work or something
when he should have been violated but
what he didn't do was talk about three
or four more and if you've gotten up to
chapter 10 you've seen all that stuff
later yeah so when I got this record a
pretty substantial record I took it to
someone in Lewis walk Nick who was a
retired judge and retired district
attorney from the valley out around here
Van Nuys because I needed somebody with
the expertise and the knowledge of how
things worked because you have to look
at everything in context things work at
differently today than they did in 2009
or 2001 I interviewed him but he was
there in 69 in the DA's office I brought
the documents to him and we laid them
all out on his kitchen table and he's
looking at them and the poor guy was
very sick with cancer and he talked like
this but I had the recorder going and
he's looking at all the documents and
he's seeing this pattern of catch
release catch release and he's gone
chicken shit chicken shit this is all
chicken shit he goes he shouldn't he
should have gone back the first time he
goes they wanted him out he said he was
more important to somebody out than in
he goes you've got to find out who it
was and I go up how do I do that and he
goes you're not gonna be able to that's
he's an informant I go but who should i
what should I look at he goes well he
was working either for local law
enforcement the federal government the
FBI but somebody wanted him out there
doing whatever he was doing
so that was important another turning
point was a bunch of years later was
when I brought similar materials to
Stephen Kay who was Bulli aussies co
prosecutor in the case
I stopped you for a second so the
speculation his speculation was that
Charlie was an informant well and again
an informant has many definitions it's
not just informing on crime it also can
be doing the police's bidding that's
what we're the CIA's been with the CIA
or the FBI being a part of a program
right where they're allowing this and
also there's speculation that the the
goal was to try to diminish the anti-war
movement and that this guy was a part of
the hippie movement and then so now
people would associate hippies with
violence and drugs and murder and all
this well I mean this is going into the
but I'll try to do it I know that your
podcasts are longer than most well we
can keep going forever so it's been a
while since I've done this the book came
out a year ago and everybody I mean I
haven't been getting the calls I got
when the book came out so I'm a little
rusty believe it or not you're great
this is some amazing stuff it's just
hard to kind of cover all these loose
ground without sound and nuts without
giving context yes I understand in 1967
the federal government started the FBI
started a program called COINTELPRO in
San Francisco the hope and the first
office the same time Manson arrived
there the CIA started a program like
MKULTRA illegal I mean I'm Kaila was
illegal because they were violating
people's human rights by giving them
drugs without their knowledge or cousin
sent but they were also operating on
American soil domestic soil which is
against the law in the United States are
not allowed to the CIA is not allowed to
operate here they opened something they
started a new program called Kaos same
thing they speak an in San Francisco in
the summer of 67 authorized by Richard
Helms who was by then the director of
the CIA he had come up since 52 working
under Allen Dulles and then John McComb
and he was the one who supervised
Gottlieb and MKULTRA so chaos in
COINTELPRO each had the same objectives
which were to neutralize what they
believe was a revolution the
revolutionaries that were gonna create a
civil war in America at the left-wing
the anti-war movement the Black Panthers
and the hippie movement who kind of
embraced it all and this all began in
the early 60s with Ronald Reagan had
become the Governor of California and J
Edgar Hoover was convinced that the free
speech movement which began in the early
60s in Berkeley had been infiltrated by
communists from Russia and China and
they were trying to create divisive miss
within the United States to start a
revolution so Hoover started COINTELPRO
and Reagan was involved with that as the
governor and then Helms started chaos
and both of them had informants who were
trained they had something called the
Hoover Academy where they had training
programs to turn agents into hippies
just like Joey West with his graduate
students they grew their hair long they
learned the lingo and then they went and
tried to insinuate themselves with with
left-wing groups african-americans with
the Panthers COINTELPRO would hit rival
groups against each other and the
ultimate goal was to get them to kill
each other and COINTELPRO was exposed in
1972 one or two after a bunch of kind of
radical people raided a warehouse in
Pennsylvania where they media
Pennsylvania not far from where I was
raised where they knew that the FBI
stored records and then they released it
to the public and it was the record of
this operation and the documents were
astonishing because they weren't
redacted because they were stolen and
then released there are documents
celebrating the murder of one mutant the
panthers became really paranoid by 67 68
there were all kinds of inner power
struggles
and they thought they thought that they
were correctly thought that they had
been infiltrated and they suspect and
they were some of them killed other
Panthers because they thought they were
informants but they also had a rivalry
with different groups like in the Los
Angeles the u.s. slaves which was a
militant group and the COINTELPRO
operatives would let the us slaves think
they were about to be attacked by the
Panthers and vice-versa and then there'd
be a shootout and when Cohen trouble was
Pearl was exposed in the 70s and
resulted in more hearings investigations
they admitted to being responsible for
instigator I think 20 or 30 killings by
their operatives chaos on the other hand
there's minimal records of casts all we
knew was it existed from 67 probably
till Helms left the CIA and 73 and that
their objective was we knew that they
were doing surveillance and we knew that
they were doing wiretapping and
infiltrating groups but as far as beyond
that you can't they can't even name a
Kaos agent nobody has ever been exposed
because everything was destroyed when
Helms left the record so these groups
were trying to incite violence now we
get to the motive of of the official
narrative of the Manson murders are the
tale Avianca murders which is what the
prosecutor events Bulli OSI presented at
trial which was the famous helter
skelter motive in a nutshell Manson
believed that there was going to be a
race war and he wanted to incite this
race war because he had convinced his
followers that through messages he
received from the Beatles White Album
from their lyrics from biblical Old
Testament prophecies that he had been
told that he was going to be the savior
of the world and once a race were
started he would hide his family in a
bottomless pit in the desert and when
the race war ended with the blacks
winning
the blacks will be framed for four
murders they would the Manson family
would emerge and repopulate the planet
with their perfect opt offspring and
dominate the blacks this was Vince
Bugliosi
well he heard him or there was talk of
that there was a philosophy of helter
skelter at the spawn ranch with where
they lived in 68 and 69 that Manson
would discuss but whether or not it was
the motive for the murders is I raised
serious questions about that and look
man said would discuss it in that way
that there was going to be a race war
and that they would emerge and then
their offspring yeah yeah except for the
fact that what's question so the way
boolie OSI was able to convict Manson
Manson wasn't at the Tate house when the
murders happen he had in the official
story dispatched Susan Atkins Patricia
KRENWINKEL Leslie Kasabian and Tex
Watson to the house the former house of
Terry Melcher they didn't know who lived
there but just to kill everybody and has
Manson allegedly said leave something
witchy he wanted it to look like blacks
had killed these all he knew was they
were wealthy beautiful whites and he
wanted to ignite the race war because if
the Panthers got blamed for these
murders then the police would crack down
on them they revolt the revolution what
happened it would be a plea it would
spread across the whole world and then
when it was over and the blacks had
prevailed they were too dumb Manson
believed to be able to run the world
that's when he would come out with his
followers of their whole in the desert
and take over the planet now Julio see
said in interviews that I didn't have
until after he and I stopped speaking
which was when he started threatening me
with lawsuits and other things in the in
the about 2006 seven I discovered two or
three interviews he gave in the early
70s where he was asked if he believed
that Manson really believed this
craziness and Bruno's he said I don't
think Charlie believed
he got his followers too but he never
believed in that he was too smart he was
a conman what the interviewers didn't
ask him in the follow-up was well if he
didn't believe it why did he send his
followers to kill these people the first
night at the Tate house the second night
in Las Villas as the you know upper
middle class couple the law Bianca's
then you know what was the motive and
that's one of my biggest regrets is that
I slipped and they were kind of obscure
one was a penthouse interview the other
was a regional newspaper but that I
didn't have them I thought I had done
all the research I thought I read every
interview he'd ever given but I didn't
have it at hand to say all right then I
get that because I don't think Manson
believed it either then what was the
motive for the murders why were they
sent there to kill and that's what the
book explores so do you think Bugliosi
was operating with the knowledge that
Manson was a part of these programs oh
that's the big question yeah yeah again
I I lay it out in the book so I
interview bully oh so he was the first
not the first one of the first
interviews I did when I was a magazine
assignment he invited me to his house in
Pasadena so it was April of 99 we spent
literally six hours together he was so
kind and generous with his time I
thought I scored I had the prosecutor he
hadn't given interviews he always gave
interviews about this but he hadn't for
a number of years he agreed to do it for
whatever reason and during the course of
that interview
you know we arrived at his house went to
in into his kitchen his wife gave me
Italian cookies with coffee and lemonade
then he and I went out to lunch in the
valley somewhere he showed me some of
the sights connected to the murders then
we went back to the house and talked
till sunset and towards the end of the
six hours I did realize that even though
he was talking non-stop and I'm
recording everything he hadn't given me
anything new or different I mean I just
finished helter skelter I read it for
the first time because I'd never been
interested in the case till I got the
assignment so I did what we call the
Hail Mary pass in journalism which is
you ask someone if there's anything they
could tell you off the record and offer
attribution
that will help them to get something
fresh because I was still searching for
an angle this is the first month of
reporting and then kind of thought a
minute and then goes turn it off turn it
off so I turned off the recorder and he
did I could tell he was debating but
then he told me something which I'm not
sure if I don't think I revealed it till
the last chapter it's off the record was
salacious pretty shocking in the larger
picture it doesn't change anything
really but it showed me that he had a
very different account of something very
important in the narrative and I took
that away and I thought wow I'm gonna
what'd he say well first let me explain
it it was off the record right in 2005
when I interviewed him for the second
time and all things went to hell and he
started threatening me and with lawsuits
and writing letters to my publisher
trying to get them to stop the book he
wrote about what he told me and he
claimed that I had dragged it out of him
and embellished it and all this but once
he put that in a letter the lawyers at
the publisher said well it's not on the
record anymore because these documents
will all be in a civil trial when he
Sue's you which he said he was about to
do not off the record you mean yeah they
said now it's on the rack right I mean
he is he's violated his agreement with
you so what he told me was that famously
an audio to our videotape was taken from
the Tate house by the police excuse me
the first day after the murders they
found it hidden up in the loft videotape
videotaping home video taking was
relatively new at that point not a lot
of people had cameras but Roman Polanski
did and in helter skelter Vince says in
the book that the police took the tape
viewed it and it was just Sheeran and
Roman making love and returned it to the
law Roman was in London at the time of
the murders he came back immediately and
then about a week later he went up to
the house and one of the first things he
did was he went up to the loft and he
never even knew that they took it
allegedly that that's
story found it and took it Vince told me
originally off the record that the tape
wasn't of Roman and Sheeran making love
it was Sharon being forced to have sex
with two men against her wishes and he
said Roman was the one who was making
because you could hear him in the
background you know if you read the bull
you've read those chapters Roman did a
lot of bad stuff to Sharon yeah he
seemed like a terrible person
he's pretty bad well what do you when
you hear what he did well the reason why
I can never come back to the country you
go well okay it makes sense it makes
sense yeah it's not that surprising it's
a monster yeah yeah I mean monster
that's really good at making movies yeah
yeah which we're not gonna see any more
because the last one he made which was
supposed to be one of his best they're
not gonna release it in the United
States but once I had that that's kind
of the first rabbit hole I went down
because I'm like well if this was
different in the official narrative what
else might they have changed so Vince
and I were talking on the phone about
every week for two months he was so
accessible so I'd be interviewing people
and one of the first things after that
that I found was the perjuries by Terry
Melcher on the stand I found I got
access to two separate files and found
that Melcher door stays on record
producer a young boy wander who lived in
the house with his girlfriend candy
Bergen and Cielo up until January 1st of
69 then moved to Malibu and Roman and
Sharon moved into the house in February
Melchior was the part of the motive for
why the house was picked and again this
is getting into the weeds but it's hard
to talk about any of this without this
exposition Manson sent his followers up
there to instill fear and Meltzer by
killing all the occupants of his former
house who were strangers to them I don't
believe that that's the official
narrative but Melcher testified at the
grand jury and then at the trial that he
had three fleeting encounters with
Manson one at beach boy drummers Dennis
will
- there I think and then no one there
and then - when he went to the spawn
ranch in April and May of 69 - listen to
them play music with the possible
possibility of recording them and he
didn't think they were talented enough
and told Charlie that in so many words
and then again this is the official
narrative that's when Manson kind of
spiraled and went crazy because he'd
been rejected by Terry Melcher so he
decided it was time for helter skelter
the race war and again a lot of these
things don't add up when you step back
well why didn't he kill Terry Melcher at
the house in Malibu because he knew
where he had moved - why'd he just go to
this other place and kill strangers
maybe Terry wouldn't connected all that
the bottom line was Terry on the stand
and all the official accounts of this
case of which there are many not just
helter skelter but lots of books his
relationship with Manson ended in May of
69 he said he never saw him again
when the murders happened at his former
house it never occurred to him it had
anything to do with him or that Manson
did it I stopped believing that a month
or two in and then I found these
documents showing that Meltzer actually
had gone to see Manson twice at the
spawn ranch after the murders and then
once all the way out at death valley
where they had the Barker ranch where
they were hiding when they were finally
captured and in the fall of 69 once I
could document that that changed the
whole I mean it didn't change but
impacted the mode I mean Meltzer was a
principal witness again because Charlie
wasn't at the Tate house Manson had our
bully oh she had a convicted of
conspiracy in other words ordering
people to go up there and kill and he
had to have a reason for that house so
Terry provided it by saying yes I did go
out there and try to record them and
then eventually in the question it came
out but I never had anything to do with
them again I had no idea I never saw him
or heard from the motivation was revenge
on Terry Melcher because Terry Melcher
didn't turn him into a star right so
this is what Billy owes he was using but
it didn't make any sense
right because Melcher saw him after the
murder several times
yeah and not only even if it made it
didn't make sense you're right and
that's why I think well I think if we
get away with anything then because the
antics of the family at the trial and
everybody was so horrified by what was
going on nobody was looking at this
critically in questioning stuff cuz
everyday you know Manson and the girls
were getting thrown out of the courtroom
for screaming for singing for dancing
for mocking the proceedings
so all this stayed under the radar but
once I could prove that melter lied and
then two or three more then I knew that
I had to question the entire narrative
so Julio see started monitoring my
interviewing this is all laid out in the
beginning of the book so by the fall of
the first year of 99 I got a call from
one of my sources Rudy Alta belly
it was another important witness he was
the man who owned the house where the
murders happened he was traveling he was
traveling actually in Europe with Sharon
who had come back about sharing tape
about three weeks before to have her
baby and Rudy had told me from the very
beginning he was very close to Terry
Dennis Wilson and the third guy Greg
Jacobson Greg Jacobson was another
important witness who lied and
throughout the whole all of his
testimony in the trial to fit a
narrative the fence needed Rudy had told
me that Vince called him excuse me Terry
called him and said what are you telling
this O'Neil no one was supposed to know
about that Vince promised me it would
never come out so at that point I knew
that I was onto something even even
bigger and then I got a call from Vince
and he left a message on my machine
saying he wanted to talk to me it was
important so I called him back and he
said you know I'm hearing I I can't
remember who told me and that was
another little game of his he would
never be like Trump saying this guy said
to me or one of my friends or they say
Vince said someone told me I heard that
you're questioning my tactics and my
choices at the trial is that true you
know Tom what's what's going on here I
go well you know I'm looking at stuff
Manson you know you knew where this was
going I mean I know we haven't taught
it's that point we hadn't talked for
about six weeks I think he goes well I
want you to assure me
that all be given the opportunity to
answer any of these questions he goes
because what might appear irregular to
you as a lay person can be easily
explained by me I said well of course
fence I'll definitely swing back around
to you before because and I thought this
was gonna be out in August and we were
in like October I think oh yeah yeah I
got it extension goes well they're also
saying you're doing it's a book and that
you lie that it's not a magazine sorry I
don't know I'm still getting paid by
premiere because it was at that point
and I had no idea it was gonna be a book
because we're still in the first six
seven months so at that point I we
stopped talking Vince and I and it
wasn't until 2005 when I got my book
deal that I went back to him with these
questions and I thought hoped naively
that I would get him to break down and
say yes this was all a CIA operation I
was option oh god no that was stupid
but you know I thought what else can he
say when I put all this in front of him
but you know as he must have been really
freaked out by how deep you got into
this yeah yeah well again you've read
the prologue to the book where we open
in that scene in his kitchen where he's
screaming and cursing at me and saying
he's gonna hurt me like I've never been
hurt before and he's gonna sue me for a
hundred hundreds of millions of dollars
it's crazy well when you got to the end
of the book you'll see the outcome of
that day and what happened when he's
begging me he's saying he'll give me a
quote on the cover of my book if I don't
publish this stuff and and then when I
wouldn't agree to anything then the
lawsuit threats started happening so I
naively I didn't think he was gonna
break down and say I was working for
someone else I had no choice right but
instead he was evasive threatening
screaming denying he had two recorders I
had two recorders he's he went off the
record every two minutes so we'd have to
turn off all the recorders and Vince was
not turning his I'm like Vince you
didn't turn yours back oh no you didn't
turn it off wait and no that's my record
now this is yours so woman and he's
screaming and cursing at me going do you
have any idea how fuck you if you
fucking put this in your book and then
the recorders go back on but sometimes
it
they were already on because we couldn't
keep up with all the off-the-record geez
then when I got home that night so I
walk out of the house 6 hours exactly
almost 6 hours just like the first time
6 years earlier he's grabbing me by the
arm goes this isn't quid pro quo this
isn't quid pro quo but if you don't put
this ridiculous nonsense in he goes you
know a blurb from Vince bull he always
referred to himself in the third person
of blur from Vince Pouliot Jie on the
cover of this book you have no idea what
that doesn't I rarely do it I'm very
selective I get asked 10 20 times a day
I mean the man's egos you'll see that in
the book then I get home that night
there's messages call me call me and he
called me I think it's a week week and a
half almost every day the next morning a
few days later trying to he would bully
me and then he'd say no no look what
this is gonna do to my family my kids
had to be very excited by that knowing
that like this is oh yeah there's no
there's no reason for that guy to react
like unless you had him I know I know
and then he knew yeah so a year lake up
not a year later he said when we finally
he goes at the very the very last phone
call which was a week and a half later
he goes so you're really gonna go ahead
and do with this go ahead with a cycle
Vince I'm gonna report what I have I go
if you want Oh at this point I had lost
the magazine deal had ended I had sold
the book so I he knew I had a publisher
I told him who it was and he asked for
my editors name there he said because I
will be sending them a letter he goes I
will work on this letter for hours it's
gonna be a complete rebuttal of
everything you argued all of your
arguments all your points it's gonna
ruin you they're gonna cancel your deal
because they're not stupid so he wrote
the letter they got it and I think it
was June or July after February of that
that year 2005 and I got a call from my
editor he said you got to talk to our
attorneys he goes we have a letter from
Vince I go well I told you it was coming
he goes it's insane
it's 34 pages single-spaced with 50
pages of attachments and it goes I've
never seen anything like this so he said
talk talk to the attorney so they sent
me over to the attorney and he said my
first question I'd never met the guy
before he goes my first question for you
O'Neil is is he suffering from dementia
he goes I was a law student during the
trial and he goes I followed that trial
every day in the paper I've read helter
skelter he was brilliant he goes I can't
believe the person that wrote this
letter wrote that book so maybe you were
dealing with somebody who was impaired
I said he's mentally ill and I have a
lot of proof of that in the book it's
not dementia I go he's finishing his
magnum opus a 20-year effort to write a
book rebutting the critics of the Warren
Commission about the Kennedy
assassination I always got a book coming
out a tour and sure enough you know he
wrote I think two or three more books
after that I go he's just I caught him
he goes all of his arguments don't make
sense he's contradicting himself the
letter goes off in the directions that
it sounds like it's written by a madman
and I go I was gonna inhibit us he goes
oh no we're cell we're opening the
champagne here you I mean he wouldn't
write a letter like this unless you got
him fifty pages of attachment that was
the first letter then about six months
later another letter I think there were
four total I quote some of them in the
book it was nuts and unfortunately he
passed away in 2015 or 16 and I get a
lot of criticism I mean get it from all
over seeing when he died I think seventy
four or five it was cancer I know he was
sick off and on for a couple years but
I've been accused by my critics of not
publishing the book until he died
because of these threats and no I wanted
him to be alive I wanted him to be
accountable and have to answer to all
this the reason I didn't publish it when
I was going to publish it was penguin my
publisher cancelled my deal and
2011 and then sued me for a return of
the advance which crippled I couldn't do
that well the book was due originally in
2008 and then I'm not good with the
deadline figure that out well it's a
great book even if it took you 20 years
to write it ya know I mean they they
extended it and then in 2011 they lost
their patience and it was a surprise
because I knew that the editor and the
publisher of penguin press the imprint
who are very serious
you know publishers very well known I
knew I thought that they believed in me
and understood why it was still taking
long so when I got the call it was
devastating and then even worse as a
year later my agent got served with
papers and they took me to court
what never got to court it was resolved
but they sued me for my advance which
was substantial and I'm not allowed to
say anything except that it was resolved
because there's non-disclosures but
let's just say you've had I mean you
putting me on here and the advance stuff
you get this help the sales I'm still
not making money because I owe a lot of
people money so that was crushing and it
held up the book because we couldn't
take it out and try to resell it until
it was resolved it took about a year and
a half or two years to resolve the
lawsuit I luckily I got a pro bono
lawyer I was busted broke and then once
we resolved the lawsuit was about
2016-17 then we could take it out but we
weren't sure where we were gonna be able
to sell it because it had this bad
history trailing me so from 2011 to 2016
it's in limbo well it is except I worked
just as hard every single day and then I
was involved with a director and I kind
of hint in the book who it is but I mean
it's I don't think it's a secret Errol
Morris you know who he is no he did thin
blue line okay yeah he's won an Academy
Award for a documentary
Robert McNamara so they want to make a
book about the drone oh so Errol Errol
Morris I think you had a son on Hamilton
Morris oh that's a song yeah yeah yeah
yeah well Hamilton was he wasn't
officially part of this project but he
came to the shoots Errol approached me
he actually is a writer for penguin
press an author there he writes books
too not too often but occasionally and
he knew about my book because they had
asked him at one point if he wanted to
collaborate on it with me when it was
when I was struggling with it
and he said no no I want to make a movie
about it and they said well it's not a
movie it's a book maybe after so what my
deal got cancelled and I was in limbo I
thought well I can go to Errol now I'd
never met him or spoken to him but I
sent him an email got his email address
and he called me like the next day and
he goes are you kidding me he goes I've
always I was fat because I got my
proposal he said I was so fascinated by
the story and I've always wanted to do
something on both Manson and MKULTRA so
it took about six months of legal stuff
because since my book was still owned by
penguin but the suit was happening and
he helped this process he got them to
allow him to work with me on what became
and was gonna be a Netflix series he
sold it he shot at what he called a
teaser so he spent two days and this was
2014 with me one day at my bungalow
where he wired it with like 15 cameras
on remote cables and the ceilings and
then interviewed me all day at the house
at my house and going through all my
files and everything and then the next
day his crew took like half of my
apartment to a soundstage in the valley
somewhere and recreated my apartment but
then he used all his magical tricks like
he had a camera 200 feet in the air it's
zoomed down and spin it was beautiful
what he ended up cutting and putting
together and then in 2015 he changed
what he wanted to do with the
documentary it was going to be a
six-hour series he had sold it and I had
never signed the final contracts because
I said at all you got to give me a
clearer picture of what this is well at
one point he decided he wanted to do
story of Frank Olsen with my story and
Frankel's and sons Eric's pursuit of his
father's possible murder by the CIA in
1954 because of what he had found out
about the Korean pal biological stuff
that became wormwood which I don't know
if you saw it was a Netflix series about
two years ago it's the last thing I know
Errol it's the second to last thing
Errol did it was his first six-part
series that happened because I backed
out when you know I I didn't like the
direction it was going so Errol and I
fell out over that we're still friends
and he gave me some pictures for the
middle of the book from from the shoot
and he did just just Frank Olson and
Eric's pursuit of it so that took up
like a year and a half of working with
him and his people to develop it and and
then it all stopped and I actually
walked away from money that would have
really helped me but I you know I was
willing to give him control but I didn't
like where it was going and I had
already invested 16 years of my life at
that point and I just thought I can't I
can't do this you know I still need this
to be my vision and not somebody else's
and he was pretty upset and pissed off
but he he meant another good series that
you know evolved out of my project and
and at that point it was about to 1516 I
just kept reporting and working to get
the lawsuit resolved and then as soon as
it did my agent took took it out and he
said before I take out this new proposal
I got a collaborator Dan pipe and bring
Young had started working with prints on
Prince's memoir and then Prince died in
the middle of it and because once Prince
was dead all this stuff had to be
settled with his estate Dan had like a
year of not doing anything so our agents
were the same agency they put us
together and at first I was apprehensive
because he was like 29 he won't even
alive when this happened I thought what
this is kid gonna know about this case
and all of this stuff that COINTELPRO
care
and killed him enough to teach him so
much that's gonna take a year but the
when I met him and I saw the writing he
had done before I'm like this guy is
perfect and he was so we turned it out
in a year well we took it out and Sloane
my agent said we've got a senator to
penguin first because we still have that
resolution that hasn't been resolved I
mean it's it's all agreed to but we have
to finish what we have to do so they
need to know about it they saw the new
proposal and made us an offer for the
book that now hilarious I know after
suing me and trying to I mean doing
everything to ruin my life they made the
first offer and it matched the the
publisher we went with little brown and
I said oh gosh I'm not sure how much I'm
allowed to say get in trouble yeah let's
just say I I said if they just get me a
little bit more than little Browns
offering I'll go with them because it
was the same people and they knew
everything I wouldn't have to educate a
little and they wouldn't and then I said
oh you guys got a little brown I'm
really happy with what little brown did
well that's a crazy route to get a book
out yeah I mean what it was it what did
it feel like when you got this like in
your hand it's on the bookshelves I must
have been like you gave birth yeah like
a giant baby yeah I don't want to be
overdramatic but I kind of spent 20
years of my life doing nothing but
investigating this and trying to bring
it to fruition and there were so many
setbacks and so many times that I was
broke and my reporting had hit a wall
and I found out I'd wasted three months
pursuing one angle that ended up not
holding up but at some point I thought
what else can I do now
in good faith knowing that all this
stuff I've done up to this point is in
the gutter you know in the garbage I
can't let that happen and I knew I had
really important discoveries I mean my
problem was putting them all together in
a cohesive way with a final answer and
my agents
are telling me around to that in the
mid-2000s you know you don't have to
have resolution you don't have to have a
perfect beginning middle and end you've
got so much important stuff that you've
uncovered about not just the murders and
the trial and the corruption in Los
Angeles but the federal government
Jolley West MKULTRA : tell for all of
this stuff he goes just put all that out
there you know and and I never really
believed that and when I finally said
well I can't I'll do this the rest of my
life and have nothing when I made that
kind of decision and then took on this
dan my collaborator and we literally
turned it around in a year it was like a
dream you know and then when the book
was for when I first got the galleys at
my house and then the hardcover you know
a few months later at my shitty
apartment in mid-city that I just I
couldn't believe it and I thought right
now I can get run over by a bus I don't
care cuz there's a document it's out
there now I don't care what happens to
me and it's kind of giving me it gave me
a freedom because now that I've done it
and it's you know on bookshelves or
wherever I can go on with my life I had
hoped to go on with my life without ever
having to think about this again but
then of course after you get calls you
get emails from people who have
information there's so much stuff we had
to leave out of the book it's pretty
long it's a lot longer than they
originally gave us and then I was
telling you a few days ago they were
only gonna give me ten pages of endnotes
you know that where you show all your
sources at the back of the book and I
thought four more and I got sixty and
you know that's the most important part
of the book because it shows every
single document where to get it where I
found it I you know add a little bit
more of information about why you know
why it's important with all that out
there now it's like I feel like I don't
ever I don't really need to do anything
ever again I want to I don't know I mean
the guy they know that was Jamie I was
telling there's a guy adapting it for
Amazon Studios so it could become a film
who knows what's going to happen
especially or a series on Amazon
see now we wanted I wanted a limit none
of us it's scripted I wanted a
documentary - you're right I think about
a film is this is such a long story I
would hate to see them butcher it well
you do have friends at Amazon when you
don't know anybody
no no that's you're pretty good at what
you do but they're gonna butcher it
they're gonna butcher it yeah no I mean
I wanted it to be a limited series
that's the way to go yeah yeah and when
we made the deal with them they actually
bought it before the book was written
they got a copy of the proposal that we
had submitted to a couple of the
publishers with non-disclosures they
somehow got it Amazon and made us an
offer and this was when I was really
really broke in 2017 before I mean I got
a little advanced from Little Brown but
let's just say a lot of that had to go
to some other people that I owed money
to so my agent basically said you know
bottom line is Amazon's going to do a
great job whatever they do with it and
we can't get them to commit to limited
series or feature and they're leaning
towards the feature if you want to say
I'll only do it if it's a limited series
you're risking losing it
I would say go for it and then hopefully
when they get this massive book they'll
say oh it has to be a limited series mmm
they didn't you know and the gospel
they're really still trying to do it if
a feature yeah Amazon please yeah the
guy who's doing it so he came to spend a
week with me about in October before he
began writing and he's an established
guy smart good done a lot of films and
he's like oh my god now I know why it
took you 20 years how am I gonna fit
this into two hours yeah make us see I
you well that's what I said to him I go
will you go to them you know they trust
you they'll hear this and maybe they'll
listen because I think this can be
aspect and I'll help you get put this
together put it on Amazon I have people
in here I'll promote it I think this is
amazing this this story is crazy yeah
it's crazy and I think it's also a
really important part of human history
imagine if The Whistleblower had not
come forward and we didn't know about
mko
and and and all those documents didn't
get but they didn't find the warehouse
for the document
just imagine oh yeah we never would have
known a boss like nobody say nobody in
the program has ever come out and and
talked about it I mean I went to a
couple of guys who are still alive
wouldn't talk to me of course I mean
they always fall back on you know we
signed an oath with the agency right if
we talk to you without permission and
they're not gonna give us permission we
could go to prison
just imagine what life must have been
like for them knowing that this is what
they were doing to people oh yeah so
that's such a strange way to it also
these people are agents for the federal
government I mean what kind of precedent
does this establish well most of the
people doing the research were
subcontracted researchers at the prison
you know medical personnel at prisons
and in the case of jolly West he was
first in the Air Force and then he was
in university settings and jolly was you
know once he got to University of
Oklahoma he was experimenting on
patients and in one of his letters to
Godley asking for more funding he's
saying working with psychiatric patients
actually benefits us because people
can't I'm not quoting directly here but
he's he was making the argument that
their weird behavior wouldn't be noticed
by anybody and the hospitals because
their psychiatric patients so these
people are getting LSD which is a pretty
powerful drug and other drugs he was
using and he was hypnotizing them in
some of many of his experiments without
without their knowledge and their
psychiatric patients I mean it's worse
than Nazis your mind is you know the
next most important thing besides your
soul and they're tampering with it you
know one of Charlie's colleagues the guy
who actually took over the department
when jolly in 69 came out to UCLA from
Oklahoma said to me because I again I
would do this with people I would show
them all the documents and he said he
always says West was one of his best
friends he'd known of her I think 45
years when West died in 99 he said but
he said to me Charlie
it doesn't surprise me that he would
have done this this is the Jack Ruby's
stuff which I guess you haven't gotten
to yet
jolly was Jack Ruby's psychiatrist no
Jesus it's a hole that makes sense too
right yeah Jack well actually I won't
spoil it remote of Jack Ruby on all good
I was impressed yeah yeah well you're
gonna get to about 30 or 40 pages on
Jack Ruby and jolly West I'll just I
don't want to spoil it for you or for
the listeners if they haven't read the
book yet but jolly West inserted himself
into the Ruby case after ruby was
convicted of shooting and killing Oswald
in the spring of 64 before he was going
to testify to the Warren Commission he
had never told he had never testified at
his trial about why he killed Oswald his
defense argument was that he had
epilepsy and he had had an epileptic fit
and shot him and was amnesiac of the the
shooting holy shit yeah so that fits
right into the narrative look at key
well this gets better so West insert
sample that microphone out towards your
face I'm sorry that's right so what just
yeah so West and search himself into the
case gets a sign through his connections
to Ruby's new lawyer you Burt Winston
Smith who was a whole other kettle of
fish but anyway
goes to the Dallas County Jail in I
think was April of 64 to examine Ruby in
preparation for not the Warren
Commission testimony which he was giving
in a couple months before his next trial
because he had gotten a nude or an
appeal for a psychiatric review and West
who had told Sidney Gottlieb in in these
early letters from the 50s that part of
his experiments were inducing insanity
and a person without their awareness
West goes to examine Ruby emerges from
the county jail and there's press
waiting for him and he announces that
within the preceding 48 hours
groobie had had a psychotic break that
was irrevocable pol it couldn't he
couldn't return to sanity
he had audio and visual hallucinations
during the exam he said Ruby hid under a
table because he thought there were
people in the room trying to kill him
told West he could hear children screams
outside his jail cell as Jewish children
as they were boiled alive and Wes said
he's completely insane that was the day
I mean there was no evidence of Ruby
being mentally ill prior to West's exam
Wes was along with him in the cell and
then treated him for about six months
when Ruby finally gave his testimony the
Warren Commission so Earl Warren Chief
Justice Warren who was head of the
Commission flew down to Dallas with Joel
Ford who was in Congress and on the
Commission and Arlen Specter the young
royal inspector who was an investigator
for the Warren Commission who eventually
came up with the Magic Bullet theory he
called it the Magic Bullet conclusion
anyway the three of them you know put
ruby under oath and ruby babble was
incoherent grabbed Arlen Specter who was
like him Jewish and he said don't you
know they're killing Jews and I and
they've killed my brother and cut off
his legs I heard them being tortured
outside my so they couldn't use anything
last that was one of his objectives in
his encounter research was to make
people induce insanity without a
person's awareness was there any contact
with Jack Ruby before he killed that
Walt again that was one of the things I
can't tell you how hard you know oh you
mean blast Laurel do you mean western
movie anyone anyone that could have done
something to get out yeah to kill Ruby
no Ruby to kill Ruby yeah Ruby had a lot
of connections to organized crime and
federal he was part of which later
emerged
the anti-castro Cuban effort to
overthrow Fidel Castro which was run it
was Operation Mongoose by the CIA it was
an illegal assassination program Rubi
deny being in and that's in the book I
found out that again through West papers
that I got access to Ruby admitted never
that he stalked and killed Oswald on the
orders of anyone but that he was working
with these people who were suspected of
being involved in the assassination if
there was a conspiracy and he had never
admitted that to anyone it's only in
West's file and Wes withheld that so
let's break that down so for people that
don't know the the the primary theory of
who was responsible if there was a
conspiracy to kill Kennedy and one of
the thoughts was that it had to do with
some sort of CIA operation to overthrow
Castro yeah well there was so the Warren
Commission concluded that Oswald acted
alone there was no conspiracy Allen
Dulles
Dulles the former head of the CIA who
was fired by John F Kennedy was
second-in-command to judge Warren and
the Commission Richard Helms who was
actually jolly West's employer for
MKULTRA was the liaison between the CIA
and the Commission so Helms knew that
Ruby who they called their most
important witness in their investigation
the Warren Commission investigation
because he was the one who silenced the
killer
there could be no trial for Oswalt
because he was dead so they tried to
learn everything they could about Ruby
to see if he had had any meetings with
Oswald prior or if he had connections
beyond the superficial ones to organized
crime was there something deeper the
Commission which I believe was you know
a joke from the beginning it was set to
determine I mean they said in the
beginning their objective was to prove
that Oswald acted alone they came up
with that conclusion but after the first
intelligence Senate Intelligence
hearings in the
in the early 70s that exposed MKULTRA
Kaos : tell Pro primarily the the Frank
church hearings they found out that
Dulles and Helms and others had lied
about the CIA's involvement with Oswald
and with their own agents who had had
these peripheral we don't know if they
were periphery or not but definitely
encounters with Oswald they withheld all
that so the House voted to have what
they call the House Select Committee on
assassinations that began in 77 in 78
they released their report which they
concluded there was a probable
conspiracy to kill Kennedy that Oswald
didn't act alone and you know it's
there's lots of books about that
yeah and in their findings and then
later the to the head of the committee
uh Robert Blakely wrote a book where he
said that that Ruby had acted on behalf
of the conspiracy to silence Oswald that
he had stalked him
premeditated the murder and that the
whole thing was part of keeping the
secret
so was West a part of that you know
again I can't prove it I wanted to find
out if West it had any encounter or any
you know interaction with Ruby prior to
Ruby committing the murder couldn't find
that and that's the kind of thing that
maybe there's no evidence maybe it
happened but there's no evidence but I
wasn't going to put it in the book and I
exhausted every resource I had you know
because that that one has always been so
puzzling for me because here's this guy
that's not connected to the murder
allegedly and then steps forward and
shoots Oswald in front of everybody
yeah sentencing himself I mean like
there was no doubt about it
you're the guy who did it everyone saw
it you're gonna go to jail forever
why would you do that well the first
report which was fabricated by his first
lawyer who admitted this years and years
later he told Ruby to say he did it to
spare Jackie Kennedy from having to come
to Dallas for a trial of Oswald yeah
that was made up
and then Melvin belli was assigned to
the case was I mean we we fired like
three lawyers in the first couple weeks
then no Melvin belli I took over and
took it to trial and his argument was
that he had had an epileptic fit and
didn't know what he was doing and when
he was grabbed by the cops after he shot
Oswald he said hey I'm Jack Ruby what am
I doing here what are you doing to me
don't you know who I am because he knew
all the cops my argument in my book is
it's important my most important finding
is that a CIA contracted agent or
researcher for mind control became the
most important witness to the Warren
Commission he became that witness's
doctor right before he testified and
told his story ago that should have been
disclosed obviously to the Commission
but they're not gonna say because it's a
secret program right and then he goes
crazy and then he goes crazy I got told
by a couple of the people who were
nobody on the Commission would talk to
me that was alive when I started
pursuing them Joel Ford wouldn't talk to
me
Arlen Specter I think I mentioned that
to you before there's an interesting
I approached Arlen Specter who was
running for re-election this was 2002
and told him I had new information and
he had all he had always maintained you
know he would he he made a lot of money
off of his books about justice and
hittin the magic you know defending his
magic bully Bullet theory he always said
if anybody comes to me with new evidence
I'll look at it with an open mind so I
had sent him a persuasive letter while
his people they finally said all right
if you have these documents showing that
this doctor who treated Ruby you know
and within the 24 hours he lost his mind
Specter will look at them and then
decide if he'll talk to you fax him to
us and at that point that was 2002 I'd
lost the magazine story and I didn't
have a book deal so I wasn't operating
entirely on
I said I can't send this stuff to you
because it's my smoking gun the letters
between gottlieben and Wes describing
all the experiments
so finally Spector agreed to talk to me
on the phone for a few minutes and it
was amazing he called me from the Senate
floor while they were waiting to vote on
whether or not they were gonna invade
Iraq this was 2002 oh shit
so we were only supposed to talk for a
few minutes and when I explained what I
had and what it showed West had you know
been involved with at the time he
treated Ruby he said well if you're not
gonna send this stuff to me I don't know
you know I need to see it and I go well
I can't send it to you and he said we
want to meet me because I told him I was
in Philadelphia visiting my folks and he
was from Philadelphia too he says I'm
there in the weekend I'll meet you
Saturday I have a squash game at the
Wyndham Hotel meet me there
Christ squash so we had a meeting set up
for like three days later and this is
something I'm always second-guessing
about I made a decision I don't think I
got to I don't think I've ever really
got paranoid doing this but Specter had
been a long-term senator he was running
for re-election and it was the first
time in his career but the polls were
against him that his opponent was they
were predicting that he was going to
Spector was gonna lose
he had also you know defended this Magic
Bullet theory forever I mean more people
knew him for the Kennedy assassination
than anything else I thought so if I do
meet with him and I show him these
documents maybe it was grandiose of me
to I thought he's gonna go oh my god I
need to be part of their you know
exposure because if he didn't and walked
away from it I thought they were
important enough that he would know that
that would you know once they were
publicized and he had the opportunity to
say hey we need to look into this and
didn't he would look bad so then I
thought well maybe he's gonna two things
he's either gonna use it for to get
publicity have a press conference and
help him in his reelection or he's going
to use it to be the hero of it
and run with it before I published a
book and then I'll just be a footnote
you know to all this because he took it
so I cancelled the meeting the morning
up I called up his press secretary and
his cell phone like the three phones I
had for him I said you have to tell
senator Specter I am so sorry but
there's an emergency I've got to go back
to Los Angeles I actually was scheduled
to go the day after on Sunday so it was
a lie and I didn't talk to anyone I just
left the message and I said I'm so sorry
but I obviously I've worked so hard to
get this meaning it's embarrassing but I
have to go back so I left my parents
place to go to the post office cuz I had
been there for three months I was
actually writing the first version of
the proposal at their place to get away
from my friends and you know all the
distractions in LA and I was only gone
for like 15 minutes I go mama if that
press secretary calls I told them I was
leaving so tell him that I'm I just went
to the airport and I and I apologize I
can't lie to a press secretary I'm I got
to so I go the post office and I come
home 15 minutes later and she's like as
white as a ghost I go what she goes
senator Specter called I go see me in
the press secretary because no he called
himself he wanted to know what happened
why you changed your mind and why you
were cancelling and I had to lie Don I
don't lie I go but I lied to the senator
and you know he was a big deal in
Pennsylvania back then and so I don't
know if that was a mistake on my part I
think you know 20/20 hindsight I should
have done it and taken my chances I did
close what would have done I know that's
a very powerful man and if he thought
that he was in danger yeah I could have
fucking driven off a cliff I never I
mean I really didn't try to think like
that through all those years I thought
like that when it comes to Arlen Specter
I mean do you know how deep that guy had
to be in on that to come up with that
whack I imagine without fear he's so bad
the fact that that actually gets debated
and the fact that never gets brought up
that there were more bullet fragments in
Connolly's body than there were missing
from that bullet yeah and the fact that
anyone who knows anything
about guns right any anyone who's ever
shot a gun is seen with a bullet with a
bullet shatters bone and what it looks
like would look at that fucking bullet
and think that bullet went through two
human beings right right and the fact
that the reason why they had to make up
this theory in the first place was
because a guy was hit by a ricochet on
the underpass yeah I know the whole
story behind that well here's what I did
I tried not to lose myself any more than
I had to
in each compartmentalized area I was
going into so with the Kennedy
assassination I just did a superficial
cause like Manson I was never interested
in any thing so-called conspiracies yeah
I never cared about Kennedy or the John
F Kennedy assassination but once I found
out that West was connected to Ruby and
again that was a moment that I was like
oh no I mean first it was West in the
CIA and then I'm like and Ruby how can I
not look at the Kennedy assassination so
I kept my focus narrowly just on Ruby
Oswald West Specter I looked a little
bit of the Magic Bullet and agree with
you but I never did a deep dive and a
lot of that stuff well they had to come
up with that theory because there was a
guy who was hid under the underpass
mm-hmm he was hit by a Friday no bullet
hit the curb and it the piece of the
curb hit him so he had been injured they
recovered that bullet and they realized
that that had been a shot that had hit
that area and so then they had to
attribute all of those wounds to one
bullet right so they had different
bullets they had the bullet that was the
head shot they had the bullet that hit
the curb and then all the other injuries
had to be attributed to one bullet yeah
not only that there's a different
description of the frontal shot there's
a shot when Kennedy you see Kennedy
grabbing his neck right well in the
hospital in Dallas it's described as a
frontal shot when they fly the corpse to
Bethesda Maryland they describe it as a
trach hole yeah I've read some of that
yeah so much for so much about the
missing brain yes then on top of that
the bully OC writes a book I know to
justify the findings of the Warren
Commission there's a great book called
best evidence by David liftin
that book got me down a dark road when I
was in my 20s that's what got me really
freaked out about conspiracy theories in
the first place because I I would always
thought that conspiracy theories were
for dull minded people that didn't spend
much time thinking or reading you know
they just like they like to think that
there was a bunch of people just
controlling everything why well then you
find out about MKULTRA and operation
midnight climax and all this different
shit yeah but this is real this is
definitely real like what and then it
makes sense like there's video footage
of I believe it's uh I think it's ain't
British soldiers where they dosed them
up with acid and sent them out into this
field have you ever seen that video I
have not seen that see if you can find
that Jamie there's video footage of
soldiers on acid and this is like
archived footage of black and white they
did experiments on these soldiers in the
1950s yeah they'd been doing it for a
while once Hoffman had figured out how
to make LSD and they realized what it
could do to people they they didn't know
what here it is watches falling from
1964 experiment testing the effects of
LSD on British Marines you could see it
on you don't have to turn around to it's
on this screen right here so this is in
what did it say 1962 so it says before
64 there is December of 64 so these guys
are all wandering around on acid and so
they they
dose them up and then they send these
poor fuckers out in the field and
they're just freaking out and they don't
know what's going on where'd you find
this oh this is online yeah yeah you
could it's on it's on YouTube oh but
look at these guys just laughing
battling these soldiers lying on the
ground laughing hysterically covering
their eyes and it's all archive footage
Wow I don't want you to play it now but
is there volume or is it all silent do
you don't remember any volume go look
they're climbing trees and sherry yeah
so this is archived footage yeah right
this is they knew what they were doing
to these people and then they filmed
them and this is what they got from
Imperial War Museum in London original
footage well if we have films like that
from our
you're not gonna see him of course they
were if they weren't destroyed they're
locked up I mean that was another big
eye-opener for what's kept from us at
one point in 2011 I had a researcher at
The Washington Post a woman there who
has been there for years I could get
myself in trouble for this - I won't say
her name but anyway she's very
well-known and she's their intelligence
researcher she works with all of the
reporters at the post on intelligence
stories national security stories and
she had someone at the CIA in their
information department who would confirm
or deny stuff with her and she said I
completely trust these people I've been
working with them for 10 years I'll ask
them about jolly West and see what they
have on them and I said all right before
you ask them
don't tell them because she had the
documents I'd share them with her don't
tell them what I have proving that he
was part of the MKULTRA just say you're
working with an author on a book who
wants to know whether they're because I
already done a request and I got a we
can neither confirm nor deny yeah and
she said they don't they'll tell me the
truth like they're not gonna give me
another confirm or deny we'll just say
we have something and we can't tell you
if we can or we have nothing but we'll
get the truth to see what they have so a
week later she lets me know and she said
they said there's nothing he never
participated in the program there's no
record and I go well I don't want to say
her name I go well I don't think he
should be using them anymore because
they're not reliable and you know that
because you've seen the documents so she
had to rethink that I don't know you
know what she did after well that's
that's the way they can embed themselves
with reporters by letting these yeah I'm
your friend
look I'll tell you the truth right okay
this is it's a complicated world we're
out there I'm gonna keep people safe
sometimes we got to crack a few eggs to
make an omelet right don't worry I'll
let you know
I mean I'm your friend yeah don't worry
if there's some wackiness yeah yeah yeah
that's hilarious
yeah and then I said to her ask about
reef Woodson we haven't even discussed
Reed Woodson he's the guy that claimed
he had infiltrated the Manson
we haven't gone to that chapter no no no
is that after 11:00 well how many
chapters are there 13 including the
epilogue yeah yeah yeah I mean there
were a lot of spooky people in and
around the spawn ranch and in and around
the family and this one guy rave whitson
who was a spook and unfortunately was
dead by the time I started referring
people don't know spook is CIA yeah yeah
people don't know what that means yeah I
I didn't know what it meant before I saw
all this I don't know I mean maybe if I
thought about it but I wasn't interested
strange terminology I know you know well
it's like a ghost you don't say them
there's no trace no record and this guy
that's how he lived and I had found out
about him in my reporting first I got to
his attorney and then to some of his
close friends he lived in Los Angeles
and then he disappear for months doing
undercover work and he said we never he
wouldn't even tell us who he worked for
but his wife and daughter who were in
sweden's and other people who said it
was the CIA he told before he died in
the couple years before his death three
or four of his closest friends including
his attorney that he had worked on an
operation and he wouldn't tell them who
but he had infiltrated the Manson Family
prior to the murders and it was that his
dying regret was he could have prevented
them but didn't he also said that he was
at the crime scene after the killers had
left but before the police had arrived
which was like a four or five hour
window and I was able to confirm not
that he was there in those five hours
but that he was missing and that the
police set up a watch at his father's
house who he was living with to try to
figure out what was going on he ended up
helping Colonel Tate Sharon Tate's
father who left his job in military
intelligence to help the police and the
investigation he even dressed up like a
hippie right he dressed up like a hippie
and so to Reeve
and rave was a really hardcore
right-wing guy I mean he was a racist
and his daughter sent me pictures of him
and she said once he dies in fact this
is how serious this guy was he divorced
his wife who was a Swedish model first
he sent her and his infant daughter back
to Sweden from the United States in 61
because he thought there was going to be
nuclear war and then in the mid-60s he
told his wife he had a divorce er and he
couldn't have any relationship with his
daughter because his daughter was his
only vulnerability because of the work
he did that would be how they heard even
if they lived all the way in Sweden so
the daughter Liza who I've never met but
we started talking on the phone and she
started sending me materials didn't meet
him until a couple years before his
death he reached out to her said I
couldn't have any relationship with you
because of my work but I want to do that
now so he flew her to Los Angeles
introduced her to all of his friends and
after he died she went to his apartment
and went through his things and found a
picture of him dressed up as a hippie
it's in the book and and I mean it's
hard to tell but it's in a parking lot
and the cars are all like late sixties
models so again this is one of the parts
of the book where I worked so hard to
try to prove a definite link I interview
probably 12 or 13 months and family
members and I'd show them that picture
and they'd say he looked like any number
of guys that that came in and out of
there they come for a day to screw us
the women would say Charlie would bring
guys in and we didn't know if they were
the ones were providing drugs or who
they were but yeah maybe or maybe not
you know and they were all high most of
the time too you got to think that
Charlie's ability to constantly get out
of jail also must have added to his
delusions of grandeur because he felt
like he was above the law because he
really kind of was yeah when the
sheriff's were going with the spawn
ranch he was threatened he say I've got
guy
in the hills with guns pointed at you
yeah and that's on the book and I've got
the document in the notes he would give
he would give everyone acid and then he
either take a very low dose himself or
none or ten yeah so do you think that
this was something misleading
speculation again but something that he
learned how to do from Smith that's the
question
what what David Smith and Roger Smith
were looking at was personality change
lasting effects of LSD on the
personality and especially David did
something he called it the psychedelic
syndrome he did this study he was one
who ran the clinic and it basically gave
Jolly Weston office at the clinic to
recruit people in the summer of 67 and
then Roger
he gave him office space there to
conduct what he called the amphetamine
research project in 68 and 69 at the
period that he was still you know he was
they call him the friendly fed in the
Haight because everybody knew he was a
federal government person but he grew
his hair longer and grew a mustache to
try to blend in but everybody thought he
was a narc and I guess he was but
David's line of work after his mice
research which people can read about in
the book and and mice and violence was
trying to figure out why some people
were more susceptible to LSD and having
a personality change they were doing
they would screen people that this was
volunteer testing allegedly for
personality traits they were trying to
find out whether people have
precipitating factors in their
subconscious they were actually doing
chromosomal studies to taking blood and
seeing how the LSD affected chromosomes
and why some people would after one trip
have a complete ideological change they
would go from being you know normal
teenagers or twenty year old so all of a
sudden believing in mystical stuff and
losing the ego and all the kind of stuff
that Manson was trying to find when he
attracting followers who were more
susceptible who were more suggestible
and that was a research that they were
doing at the clinic at the time another
finding in the book and I wasn't the
first one to find it but I found more
evidence of it the clinic famously
opened it was nonprofit and it was
funded by the government and and David
Smith admitted that he took funds and
that's one of the reasons he gave he
told me he gave Jolley an office there
was jolly was well known in the research
community he knew that jolly would
attract government funding but they were
only supposed to be a service to runaway
kids and hippies and people who couldn't
afford health care they weren't supposed
to be doing research they weren't
supposed to be doing experiments but
they were the entire time so it was it
was sold as a non-profit health care
facility when it was actually a Research
Center for federal government and this
is interesting and this could you you
know people might think I'm crazy but it
raises questions my book came out in
June last June of 2019
the clinic was open from June of 67 they
closed in September of last year I think
it was it shut its doors for the first
time in 50 No fifty-two years three
months after your book came out yeah and
that's one of the biggest
disappointments of the book is you know
because I couldn't answer the question
the bit the largest questions I could
only present you know a case for why it
sure looked like it might have happened
this way that way the other way I was
hoping that it would be kind of a call
to action you know that other people
would pick up the ball and run with it
you know and again maybe it was my
naivety my grandiosity the second man it
took you 20 years no not on a rush for
these people to take up the ball I
wanted some serious journalists yes
especially in the cities where these
things took place I mean I exposed some
pretty serious corruption in the DA's
office in 1969 and one of the until the
OJ trial the biggest trial in the
history of the United States you know
the one that got more coverage than any
other trial and
Oh Jay and I can prove that it was fixed
from the very beginning when they
switched the lawyers and planted
evidence and perjury and stuff like that
a former prosecutor in charge of Sharon
Tate of charge of actions yet without
her yeah and they fired her legally
appointed attorney so how did someone
who would play ball yeah yeah and I have
the documents and they went to a judge
who was complicit who agreed to this and
I found all these documents in a file
that I wasn't supposed to have access to
at the sheriff's office but I got in the
back door so through some of the retired
guys that got sick of me bugging them
for information but I thought somebody
from the LA Times would do it you know a
follow up you know just go to verify
confirm or refute my allegations they
gave me a pretty galley Times gave the
book a pretty good review but I know
stories I thought there'd be news
stories maybe I was stupid maybe now
maybe San Francisco I mean there hasn't
been a story on you know that the clinic
closed three months after David Smith is
still alive Roger Smith still alive what
about where are they I don't want to say
where I've exhausted either one of them
else since that was the other thing we
were sure we were gonna get lawsuits you
know little brown was brace for it I
mean when bully OC he was already dead
when I sold it to them so they weren't
so much worried about his family
although his family they did say you
know we could be sued by his family
because they owned helter skelter and
they could argue that you diminish the
value of helter skelter which I hope I
did and I'd love to have that argument
in court hmm not a word but there are
you know a dozen principal people in
that book many of them not public
figures like Roger Smith David Smith to
an extent is because he became very
well-known not one of them has either
threatened a lawsuit contacted me the
publisher I defamed a lot of people and
I think again thank god I've got the 60
pages of notes because I think they know
they can argue the points that I'm
making everything I have exposed is
documented that's why I was so careful
about not putting speculation in the
book about not putting stuff in there
that I hadn't substantiated or
corroborated well I don't think the book
made a big enough splash for them help
me man we're helping y'all thank you
thank you that's what I think you mean
if I had a gas also the fact that they
can't refute any of the facts yeah it's
probably better to just let it die and
in today's new cycle things go in and
out in the period of days like who
killed Epstein he didn't kill himself
Yeah right boom gone no one cares
anymore kovat 19 from a lab but might
have been intense it just keeps going on
and on and on no one's gonna think about
who killed Charles Manson today we're
worried about quarantine Ian yeah I mean
that little distance Tarantino's movie
came out and there were ton there's tons
of press up on the family members were
they know this or that and again I maybe
I was just stupid thinking my book it's
all okay you know I got a lot of good
reviews a lot of good response but it
didn't do what I wanted it to do which
was to make a change you don't have
enough publicity Tom I didn't know about
it I didn't hear about until Greg Greg
told me about it with Wild Eyes Greg
Fitzsimmons I should say my good friend
introduced and your good friend
introduced me to the thing and Greg is
not a person who pitches things to me so
when he pitched it to me yeah pitch to
me full throated I was like wow he's
like dude it's fucking crazy yeah and
then I got into it further records best
guy in the world fits he's at the end of
the book but he's pissed off because I
didn't name him I just talk identify him
as a neighbor who came and consoled me
at a really bad point and gave me some
good advice so when you get to the end
of the book and I'm the neighbor comes
by walking his two little stupid dogs
and asked me if I want to come along and
he gave me I mean he's younger than I am
and he gave me like a dad pep talk about
hanging in there he's great I love he's
the best when the book came out and no
one did try to sue you or no one did
come after you were you concerned that
maybe it hadn't gotten the push that you
felt like the subject deserved yeah yeah
I mean I was happy because I've never
published
before and they had a team assigned to
it at the publishers and you know we got
I mean we got a lot of publicity but we
didn't get news making publicity I think
part of the problem tom is that it's a
deep book yeah it's dense
you got to get into it to really peace
like yeah there's a couple of times
where I had to go back over things and
like try to piece it together and like
yeah there's a lot going on and a lot of
people to follow I know I know we were
gonna put a character list up at the
front that's great listen it's worth
doing yeah yeah yeah the juice is worth
the squeeze
yeah when you get to the I mean where
I'm at it's just beginning chapter 11
you're just like holy fucking shit yeah
yeah it's yeah it was frustrating and
again I mean the bottom line for me was
I'm just so happy it's out there in the
public realm because that would have
been I can't imagine
dying with this either being sent into a
dumpster somewhere nobody's seeing this
stuff because I think a lot of it is
important well you were pregnant for
twenty years so now let me ask you this
what what is the speculation in terms of
Bulli o'seas connection was he given a
narrative was did did you do you think
that they all right I'll start without
the speck of something I can prove okay
he was compromised when he was given
this case in 1969 it's in the book he
gosh I mean he has family out there but
they know about this he was involved in
a couple cases the first one before the
trial that are crazy I mean when you see
the stuff that happened between him and
I you know all those years later it
makes sense when you see what he was
like before he became famous so in 1965
he had his first child Vincent Bugliosi
jr. he decided that he wasn't the father
that the milkman was a father and back
in those days you're too young to know
people used to deliver milk to a home
yeah
I remember hearing about it yeah so he
believed that the milkman was a father
he was a up-and-coming this deputy
district attorney in Los Angeles and for
about I think twelve or sixteen months
he stalked his milkman trying to get him
to take a blood test to prove that he
fathered his wife's child Jesus Christ
it got so bad that they had to they
stopped letting their kids take the bus
home from school they had two young kids
they didn't know who he was he wouldn't
tell them who he was all he would say
was I was on the Glee a milkman had left
the job a month after his wife found out
she was pregnant Vince's wife Vince and
his delirium decided that he was fired
because he had gotten you know clients
by people he delivered milk to pregnant
so he was writing them anonymous letters
following the kids I actually this is
one thing I did hear I heard from the
little girl sent who's now grown woman
read about this in my book and she sent
me a letter and she goes you only got
half of it he said he terrorized us he
said my father she said my father's
initely had a nervous breakdown she said
he came to my school and picked me up
this is and and he took me to a toy
store bought all these toys for me
whatever I wanted brought me to the
house and he had a driver and he left me
at the end of the driveway my mom came
out and I was like so happy I was like
five or six years old I had all these
gifts and she goes get into the house
get into the house so what happened was
Vince got caught I mean he eventually
was stalking them he sent his wife to
the house to beg the milk man's wife to
get her husband to do a paternity test
and I've got all this from all these
civil depositions when it came when the
milkman sued him later so Vince the the
milkman eventually got his
brother-in-law to follow men's from one
of his stakeouts Vince would put the car
outside the house he sent them letters
like they changed their phone number he
goes
I noticed you change your phone number
that wasn't nice
I mean nuts so the the milkman followed
Vince his brother and like they got the
plate number found out who he was and
that he was at the DA's office called
his personal attorney and the personal
attorney called Vance and they had a
meeting between Vince the milkman and
the milk man's wife and mrs. bully OC
and then admitted that he had been
stalking them because he thought it was
his wife he had used DA's investigators
calling this guy a material witness in a
murder case to follow him get
information information on the so Vince
said he would pay them a hundred dollars
and never do it again and the milkman
said we don't want your money just never
bother us again so that was all about
the end of 68 early 69 the DA's office
knew about this he should have been
fired immediately instead he gets the
biggest case at that point in the
history of Los Angeles the tate-labianca
trial this is where we got speculative
you have a guy like Vince
who's compromised he'll do what the
hires up tell him to do and if you read
in the book every honor was a district
attorney at the time he was a shady guy
who'd been in the OSS which was the
predecessor to the CIA trained in
espionage I won't say too much it's in
the book that's where we get speculative
offense was answering for something the
explanation is because he didn't go into
this case clean he had to do what he was
told
yeah after the tate-labianca convictions
and 74 helter skelter came out the book
and to this day it's the best-selling
true crime book of all time and it's a
wonderfully written book I mean I could
take your page by page and show you
stuff that's completely fabricated and
made up and that contradicts the real
record but you know bestseller and that
same year
Vince was gonna run for District
Attorney
and the milkman and his wife had never
told anyone I guess outside of their
family what had happened four or five
years before but when they saw that
Vince was trying to be the most powerful
law enforcement person in the city of
Los Angeles they went to his opponent
and said you need to know this this man
cannot get this job so they told the
opponent and they had a press conference
so the milkman and his wife went public
Vince responded by having his own press
conference and telling the reporters
here's here's what happened the milkman
we believe stole $300 in cash from our
kitchen table when he was on the route
so I was just doing a personal
investigation and the reporter said well
did you hire I mean did you contact the
Pasadena Police goes no no I just wanted
to do it on my own and then as other
people pointed out later he was doing
this this was 65 he was doing through
the end of 68 the statute of limitations
on SAFF burglary robbery is three years
it would heat even if he found out that
he had so on the three dollars they
would have been able to prosecute it so
the whole thing was alive Vince lied to
the media and he lost so then he lost
that election then he ran again after
helter skelter came out for attorney
general of California at that point the
milkman and the wife were gonna go
public again and say hey we have even
more to tell about the solutions I think
is what the daughter wants to tell me
she actually hasn't gotten in touch with
me after the first email I said I want
to hear what you have and see she said
she's all these documents but then a
woman named Virginia Cardwell said she
was going to go public - she came out
and said excuse me after Vincent told
the world that the milkman had stolen
three hundred dollars for him the
milkman and his wife filed a civil suit
against Vince Angle his wife because
Gail also publicly said with fence in an
interview that that's a truth that was
all about this petty theft they sued
them for defamation and they settled and
thence paid them I think it was 12
thousand dollars in cash and
hundred-dollar bills and you know part
of the agreement was they weren't
allowed to talk about it
they couldn't say they'd gotten any
money and he would only give it in cash
so they couldn't trace it to him I ended
up getting all the documents it took a
long time but I got them then when they
went public again when he was running
for attorney general they were subject
to you know being in violation of that
but they said he can't you know then
we'll tell everything he doesn't want to
tell he lied under oath and deposition
so did his wife about the stalking so in
73 Vince had an affair with a woman
named Virginia card well Virginia
Cardwell was Catholic she got pregnant
she told Vince that she was pregnant
with his child and then said she had to
get an abortion and she said I can't get
an abortion on the Catholic she was a
single mother he said he would set it up
he had a doctor it was still illegal
then and he gave her the money to pay
the doctor and then he called her and
she said she had gotten the abortion
everything was fine then he called the
doctor violating HIPAA rules the doctor
said actually I've never heard from this
woman I didn't give her the procedure so
Vince went to her house and beat the
hell out of her and I've got all those
depositions too he just according to her
story to the police because she reported
it he dragged her across the hair
about the floor by the hair sat in her
and punched her and punched her again in
the face told her she had to get an
abortion she miscarried
after that episode she went she went to
the Santa Monica police as soon as he
left and reported it and nobody would
have known about it but reporter saw it
on the you know the police wire service
or whatever so the next day it was on
the front page of all the LA papers that
Vince Bugliosi had been accused of
battery of a woman who said that he
wanted her to have an abortion and she
wouldn't so Vince went to the police
told them she was lying she was a client
that he had had one phone consultation
with never met her face to face and she
was trying to embarrass him
because he wanted her to pay him two or
three hundred dollars he defamed her
like he did the milkman he made up a
story and worse this time he told that
to the police this was in their
investigation of the battery he lied to
the police that it had not happened but
here's what happened the next day after
the newspapers reported it and then said
it was a lie and he told the police that
Vince went back to her apartment with
his secretary and a typewriter and he
held her a hostage I know this sounds
crazy it's in the book at the end held
her hostage for I think three or four
hours begging her and then bullying her
and he might have hit her then - I can't
remember to go to the police and say
that she had made the whole story up his
secretary was there because once he got
her to agree to do it she wrote up
backdated bill the bill for the money
and had Virginia sign it oh my god so
Virginia finally agreed to go to the
police he said look you're gonna be
charged with filing a false report which
is a felony well it's a misdemeanor but
it could go to a felony and you but I
can take care of all that I've got the
connections to the DA's office in Santa
Monica which he did and he did take care
of it so she called up the Santa Monica
Police Department to say she was coming
in to report that she had made the story
up because she was angry about this
money and the cop said right away he
knew that something was wrong in the
tremor of her voice he said we'll come
get you and Vince was on the other line
and she no no no he's saying no no no
they can't come here so she said no no
I'm coming and they said okay we'll see
you when you get here and then they
dispatched two cops to her apartment now
this had never been public before I
found it it did become public about what
happened Vince got away with denying it
the cop that went to see what was going
on and to get her guy named Michael
Landis he was retired in Santa Monica I
got his name from the reports he said oh
yeah Vince was at the house he wouldn't
let us in he said he and his partner
Robert Steinberg was
and she's cowering behind them crying
and we got her out of the house brought
her to the station and she told the the
the story that it was faked and he said
but we saw him there she goes you have
no idea how dangerous he is I didn't I
made it up please it was a false report
so she got charged the next day's papers
reported that this woman had come out
and admitted that the whole thing was
made up nobody said anything because the
cops didn't talk to the reporters about
Vince being at the house and thence you
know he prevailed he won then when he
ran for attorney general of California
in 76 Virginia Cardwell went public and
then then said told the same lie about
her he had never seen her face to face
she was trying to get two or three
hundred dollars from him for a phone
call or not pay the money for a phone
consultation
he lost the Attorney General's race when
she went public and again with the
milkman and mistress then she sued Vince
same thing he lied in the depositions
and then when he got caught with the car
the other people who could show that
they'd been together and there was a
history if they had had an affair for
like six months he resolved it and paid
her a substantial amount of money to go
away so this was the kind of person who
when I told Vince I was writing about
this in my book well he's like well
number one I can't talk about either of
those cases because they were resolved
and there's non-disclosures and I go
with Vince you know that's not true
because I mean number one Virginia's dad
she had died so she can't sue you and
she went public and so did the wise
Elle's that the milkman and the mistress
and I wouldn't you know I'm not
interested in your sordid you know
personal life but it's relevant because
I'm arguing that you committed crimes in
the prosecution of the Manson Family
suborn perjury hid evidence
you know manipulated the defense by
planning an attorney so if I'm gonna you
know try to make this case and
everyone's not going to believe it
because you're Vince Pouliot see you
know this prominent prosecutor author
well I have to show that there's a
pattern in this behavior not only that
you're lying under oath and the
depositions in these two case
before you settle but you also lied to
the police in the in the Cardwell case
and you lied to the papers and both if I
have that in my book then people will be
more prone to believe that you do the
same thing in in the tate-labianca trial
that you would you know break rules to
when your convictions did he have a
ghostwriter for helter-skelter no he had
a collaborator Kurt Gentry yeah yeah
okay so that makes sense so yeah and I
sounds like an insane person insane
person would probably not be able to
make such a coherent book I know he had
every bookie Rodya collaborators he so
the milk man's wife in her deposition
said that when Gail Vince's wife came to
her house and knocked on her door and
said please do this my husband's making
me crazy we know that he's your help man
isn't the father of my my boy but just
do it to make him stop and the milk
man's wife said we're not we don't want
have anything to do with you people just
leave us alone and go away and she goes
you don't understand my husband is
mentally ill he goes he'll never stop
this high there's nothing I can do to
get him to stop at the end of our six
hours I don't remember if I put it in
the book I might not have he said to me
you know Gail thinks I have some
psychiatric issues and she's been trying
to get me to go to a doctor forever so
you know I'm not saying that this is a
reason some of this stuff might have
happened but I do you know I don't even
know why he would tell me that but yeah
so I think that he was able to be
manipulated because of these long
because it was so compromised yeah yeah
make sense yeah holy shit he had a
family a whole hunter secret family
daughter and a mistress for the next
thirty years I interviewed the mistress
I didn't put it in the book you know I
didn't think it was necessary I guess
now I'm telling it but it actually got
reported after he died because the
mistress had told a few other people I'd
known about her for years and I knew he
had a daughter who was you know at the
time of Vincent's death she was in her
30s I think now to go back to the Manson
killings what was the motive
to hit that house if it wasn't to Doris
Day son was his name again Terry Melcher
if it wasn't to scare Terry Melcher what
was the motive like why did they kill
Sharon Tate and the people in that house
here's why it took so long to finish the
book to write the book I have
conflicting theories you know in the
first couple chapters I lay out the
evidence that it was a drug deal gone
wrong right it involved Billy Doyle and
Charles taco and these guys who were
dealing drugs out of the house with void
check for Kowski you know one of the
victims Polanski's friend and possibly
allegedly Jay Sebring the hairdresser I
lay out that case and then we bleed into
the next part where wait a minute
what did it mean that Manson had this
immunity and why would Terry Melcher lie
on the stand I mean why not say he saw
Manson after yet undermines the argument
but I thought that bully OC could have I
mean Manson and the followers did
everything they could get themselves
convicted at trial they didn't put on a
defense you know they'd carve X's in
their forehead shaved their heads the
girls skipped and laughed in and out of
the courtrooms every day when they
finally testified during the death
penalty phase Susan Atkins just then she
said that she stabbed Sharon Tate and
you think they were dosing them before
the trial I can't go there I mean it
makes sense if there's laughing and
dancing
well my if we're gonna speculate again I
believe that when other objectives was
personality changed using drugs that
noses etc and making it fix making it
stick these doctors were trying to learn
why some people do they have
precipitating personality factors that
made them more vulnerable to using LSD
once or a few times and all of a sudden
just losing all sense of reality not
everyone had that experience but some
did and that research began in 1962 in
Los Angeles there's a whole chapter
there's a few chapters but there's a
whole chapter that we left out in the
book and we'll if we do do a follow-up
it'll be in there
about another guy who's not even named
in the book who was one of these LSD
researchers and you're interested in
hyperbolic chambers and all that stuff
hyperbolic chambers are you mean sensory
deprivation yeah oh that's yeah I have
one yeah okay it's not a hyperbolic
chamber okay all right well this was a
hyperbolic barrack is that the same
Urbach that's a increased oxygen yeah
yeah cover yeah injuries yeah well so
there was a group it's a fascinating it
would have been a fascinating chapter
there was a group of people artists
educators and but they were all kind of
like beatniks and stuff that lived on
Topanga Beach in this community that of
abandoned fisherman shacks that had been
there when the PCH went up in like the
30s and 40s
there was this whole community of homes
mostly ramshackle homes that were
inaccessible except by one road I think
Topanga Canyon Road so a bunch of people
like migrated there who wanted to they
were almost like community living and
there were I think about 30 of them and
they renovated them and there were
beautiful little places they all got
destroyed when they turned that into a
park in the I think early 70s or mid 70s
but one of the guys there Paul Rowan was
an LSD researcher at UCLA doing the same
kind of research wes was doing but as
early as 62 but unofficially he and I
don't know if you know Oscar Jenna ger
was he was one of the first doctors
psychiatrists in Los Angeles who got LSD
from Sandoz for his patients but there
was a group of these people that lived
there and one of them was named Perry
Bivens and he was a diver and he was a
trust fund medical student a lot of
money and he built a hyperbolic chamber
and put gases in it his objective was to
try to learn a way to die they were all
deep-sea divers a bunch of these guys
dive to the deaths that people hadn't
dov - before by learning how to deprive
the the brains of oxygen for longer and
longer times they got access to LSD they
were the first ones supposedly civilians
in the United States have access to LSD
you know not through military or CIA
experiments as early as 1954 55 and then
by the early 60s everybody who knew knew
where to get LSD from this this
community and Tex Watson moved there who
was the main killer and 68 and lived
among these guys who were doing this
early research into mostly the one guy
Paul Rowland personality change it's I
mean it's so complicated about why it's
important that Watson was with this
community
prior to joining Manson and what
happened to him as far as his
personality changed even before he met
Manson which was the summer 68 but I
guess I'll save that for the next
chapter so the whole so the the motive
though to get back to the yeah the
official motive was a double I mean
bully Ozzie said in his closing
arguments that the the main motives to
ignite helter skelter race war the sub
motive was to instill fear in Terry
Melcher because he had rejected Manson
right so you're saying well then if it
wasn't those than what was right all
right if you look at the coho COINTELPRO
objectives which was to diminish the you
know to neutralize left-wing movement to
make them look horrible evil bad and
this is what drugs are going to do your
kids the kind of outcome that this this
these murders had was to make the
hippies the boogeyman I mean the biggest
boogeyman in the United States history I
don't know forever but at least until
the 70s became Charlie Manson and when
Manson was and his family were
identified as suspects the first week of
December 69
I mean it was like earth-shaking because
all of a sudden nobody knew who had come
into the murders that the case was open
from August till first of December you
have photos on the front page of every
paper in the world of these hippie women
you know nursing children living
communally who are accused of these
horrible brutal slayings and the
argument was and what the reporters were
reporting was they had gone crazy on LSD
and free love and and and that hippie
ethic and that was same thing chaos and
Cohen Chopra were trying to do they were
trying to damage the youth revolution
the youth why do you think they targeted
that house though so J Edgar Hoover when
he had the COINTELPRO operations
he wrote him a no excuse me in LA agent
wrote a memo to Hoover saying what we
have to do this is when they were mostly
battling the panther I mean trying to
neutralize the Panthers in LA was go
after the whites the elite whites the
Hollywood whites who were supporting the
Panthers there was something called a
white panther party that began in LA 67
or 68 Jane Fonda Warren Beatty Cass
Elliot those three were actually under
surveillance by the FBI they were part
of this group Donald Sutherland and they
were basically a support Leonard
Bernstein they supported the Panthers
they raised money so in this one memo
which I think it was the winter of 68
it's I got the date in the book said
that what we have to make the whites
think is that when the revolution
finally happens when the blacks rise up
they'll be lined up with everybody else
and slaughtered so if you look at that
memo that was part of their operation
which was to they did it by inference
sending letters making you know the
whites care and so that I hate to
speculate but I think people will draw
that conclusion if you read the book
that this could have been a chaos or
COINTELPRO operation to
turn you know the world the nation the
culture against hippies the left-wing
the Black Panthers and they picked that
house because it was high-profile
because Sharon Tate well I mean it
actually when not kosher and Tate was
there well her and Polanski and that's
one thing that Tarantino I don't think
he showed that the parties at the house
they were like the social center of
Hollywood it wasn't just the movie
people it was the music people Terry
Melcher and candy Bergen lived there for
two years before that was a party house
everybody went in and out of there kind
of represented the elite of movies music
Hollywood you know white people so that
would have been a very high-profile
place to target yeah because all the
people in that community in the
Hollywood community would then also be
aware that that was a spot that they had
been to yeah
all these high-profile people had been
there yeah it's like Joan Didion wrote
in her book The White Album that the
morning she learned about the murders
and she knew most of the victims she
goes
it occurred she goes I knew that the
sixties had ended they were over I mean
there was also Altamont and I mean not a
whole lot else but that was like a
cultural watershed moment but the
LaBianca killings were fairly random
yeah and that's a regret I have the
house was just up for sale you know yeah
just really recently I heard really
cheap yeah yeah I mean they changed the
number on the still oh yeah yeah not not
this yellow house I know yeah oddly
enough I knew it was for sales like I
was really interested not to buy it but
I was like wow that's crazy like imagine
someone buying the house where that the
killings took place but it was so long
ago yeah it wouldn't be that creepy you
know the house on the other side is the
former convent that Katy Perry's been
fighting in court with the nuns of the
church to buy this has been going on for
a couple years I don't know it's been
shot by a convent yeah yeah it's alright
it's a big beautiful home that had been
turned into a convent like a retirement
home
and when the church really hit hard
times financially they told the nuns day
we're gonna have to leave there because
they were selling it so they the church
I think sold it to Katy Perry and then
some of the nuns hired a lawyer because
they didn't want to leave I can't I mean
I didn't look too closely at it but I
just know that the whole thing is in
dispute
that's a layer and that's on the other
side of the LaBianca house oh wow so the
whole area is haunted so did they did
they target the LaBianca house for any
reason all right so the book is about
500 page long 500 pages long I didn't
put anything in there about the LaBianca
case and what I learned we also you know
withheld our chapters on the RFK
assassination so hand you know connected
to its 20 years of reporting out I mean
and the Sirhan assassination of Robert
Kennedy it was same cops investigated it
same district attorney's office
prosecuted it and if you want to take a
deep dive into that you know
Rohan's amnesia of how we ended up in
the pantry's oh Jesus Christ I actually
filmed an episode of fear factor at that
hotel hotels being used now for that and
I walked through that pantry yeah yeah
you can very area I was there too there
you know it's torn down now they made it
a public school I mean they built a
public school but there was a crucifix
carved into the floor the cement floor
where Robert Kennedy Robert Kennedy fell
oh Jesus yeah so um I think I remember
that somehow yeah so the stuff we kept
out about RFK that'll be in the next
book if we do it but there's incredible
power you're doing another book Tom I
don't want to be Tom have 20 more years
11 I know one thing I wouldn't do it
without my collaborator because he
speeds it up good yeah you get it done
in four you've got so much information
already right yeah
so the LaBianca killings or the LaBianca
killings again this is stuff the vents
kept out and again the reason the books
so hard to write is one theory would
conflict with another right so if the
Tate's were killed for
you know chaos COINTELPRO high-profile
neutralized the left or a drug deal gone
wrong what about the lobby ancas well
the lobby ancas were an upper-middle
class couple that lived in Las Villas
and thence wrote in the book that they
were randomly targeted because Manson
had been to the house next door quite a
bit when someone named Harold true lived
there and knew the layout and supposedly
went to kill Harold true first got to
Harold Truths house which was empty and
then went next door tied up the LaBianca
couple left the house and set texts and
texts Watson and Patricia KRENWINKEL and
Leslie Van Houten in to kill them what
Vince wrote about what the investigators
found out was that Lee know the father
had gambling debts he also had embezzled
two hundred thousand dollars from his
family company and the original
investigation the two teens were
separate the LAPD assigned two different
units one did the tape murders which was
much larger and wonder the LaBianca and
they announced within a couple days that
even though the crime scenes were
similar you know same weapon multiple
stab wounds blood writing on the wall he
pig they didn't think they were
connected they thought that somebody had
done a copycat of the first night's
murders to throw off investigators I
make an argument in the book that I
think the police knew exactly who did
both murders from very right away it'll
be too long to get into here but all the
evidence that I accumulated is in there
and I'm not the first one to say that
but so then why were the law Bianca's
killed you know what Vince kept out of
the book was not only was you know we
know in debt to his family but he had a
meeting on August 9th with his family
that they had told him he had to come in
his two brothers in law and his mother
who operated the gateway shop it was
called gateway markets they had upon a
string of supermarkets it was pretty
well-to-do except that we know kept
stealing all the money
they had a meeting on August 9th where
they were gonna make them sign over all
his shares leave the family business and
on August 9th he didn't show up he went
with his wife and their boat to a lake
where their daughter was visiting a
friend so the daughter and her friend
could water-ski didn't even call the
family to say he wasn't showing up came
back that night and was killed with his
wife
Vince kept that important meaning out he
also kept the depth in the degree of of
Lino's deaths out so and this isn't in
my book we didn't have enough room I you
know I'd mentioned them you know because
it's an important part but I don't talk
about what I found out and why it was
important there's a much better case
that that Lina was targeted you know the
argument would be well who would ever
hire Manson to kill someone well you
know Manson wasn't as dumb as he seemed
you know then they needed money this is
why I don't want to speculate and again
it's not even a chapter in the book so I
can't really show you what I've got
except to tell you one other you know
argument that Vince made for why he
thought the lobby ancas were killed by
the Manson Family I mean they were
actually right with their first theory
it was a copy of the night before to
throw off investigators but it was the
same killers the police were wrong when
they thought it was two separate killers
which I don't think they did is he said
we could never establish a connection
between the two groups of victims so
there were as the Hollywood set Benedict
Canyon Cielo Drive and then there was
lino and his wife across town in Las
Villas and we worked so hard to try to
determine if they knew each other I
heard any encountered the stying them
together and we couldn't that was a lie
lino got his hair cut from Jay Sebring
the victim he was in JC brings
appointment book that's in the police
reports that I got access to like my
first or second year when I begged it
persuaded a cop to let me come go
through his files and Palm Springs so he
very well
have been to that house to the Cielo
Drive house yeah yeah so they weren't
they knew that social circle I don't
know about the social circle but he
could have you know who knew I'm Jay
Sebring was a very high-profile
hairdresser he was and it was very
expensive it was very expensive yeah he
charged I mean it was expensive back
then I think it was just $20 but most
men got their hair cut for like a buck
or two back then
yeah it was an exclusives and he was a
hairdresser to the stars
he was Sharon's ex-boyfriend who was
still supposedly in love with her Romans
stole her from him and he was with
Sharon you know the last night of her
life yeah I mean there's other stuff
that didn't end up in the book for space
reasons and also one of the most
important things I found out and this
goes to your question about why this
house or why that house that's not in
the book but I've talked about it before
and I found this out too late to get in
the book I was able to confirm it it's
the night before Sharon Tate Jay Sebring
voytek frykowski and abigail folger were
killed in Cielo Drive the four of them
had dinner at Jay's house down at the
bottom of Benedict Canyon that's all on
the official story Jay had them to
dinner a mice's Butler made them steaks
and they ate them in Jays bedroom so the
four people were in the bedroom this is
August 7th the night before the murders
what's not in the official version but I
found in the police reports is Jay had
gotten cable TV which again a lot of my
critics said there was no cable TV in
1969 in Los Angeles there was it cost a
lot of money
only a few people had it but you had it
Jay Sharon Abigail and boychik had their
ice cream dessert served by a meanness
the butler he went back downstairs they
were gonna watch the movie and then all
of a sudden there was a pop whoops sorry
a power surge and the lights went really
really bright and dimmed and they lost
the cable so Jay called Paul green wall
Paul green wall was a law student whose
father was Jays attorney
and he and he was an electrician that's
how he supported himself going through
law school and he had done all the
wiring for Jay so he called Paul
Greenwald and this was a Thursday night
at like nine o'clock and he said can you
come over here we're trying to watch a
movie and the cable went out and I don't
know there was a surge so Paul said I
can't I got a date I've been trying to
get this day for months I can't blow her
off and Jay is like okay that's alright
we'll do something else so in the
official narrative nobody reported the
surge or losing the cable but in the
official narrative Jay stayed there
Sharon and voice check and gap Abigail I
think went to the daisya club and then
Sharon was there for a half hour and
somebody took her home and then Jay went
to the club what I found out from a
police interview of Paul Greenwald the
kid who was called to ask he told this
to the police and then he confirmed it
to me 3040 years later when I found him
and interviewed him he said I went to
the house either Sunday or Monday after
the murders because my father sent me
there to get a suit for Jay to be buried
in because I got to the house and I
wanted to see what had happened to the
wire since I put all the wires in and I
did a circle of the house and I found
the wires cut he goes I picked them up
and I looked at them and there were like
four cables and three work because these
were deliberately cut I could tell by
the gradation and and the angle and he
told the police that he said so the
night before they were killed somebody
cut the wires and it couldn't have been
a gardener because it was 9 o'clock at
night and he said from what Jay had told
him about the power so just like all the
full lights got really bright and then
dimmed because that's what happens when
you dude I don't know anything about
electricity the police didn't follow up
on it or if they did I couldn't find a
record and I found a link between wall
and I said you know your police report
which I have completely up ends the
prosecution's argument that these people
were random because Tex Watson the next
night cut the wires at the Tate house
the phone wires and then they went into
the house and killed everybody
so unless it's a coincidence that 24
hours before the same for people at a
different location had the house wires
cut by somebody who might have gotten
spooked by the surge or something they
weren't random they were being targeted
so that raises you know questions about
that undermines the the the the
randomness of it that they were
strangers through their killers but
there's no conclusive thing that you can
point to that says this is the reason
why they were targeted no yeah what a
book what a journey man yeah I'm very
happy for you
thanks I'm happy that you you did it I
mean that's it has to feel like an
amazing accomplishment after all those
years yeah I only have this book yeah
yeah and again I mean I more than
anything in the world even gotten to the
end of the book there is a murderer in
there that I think the Manson family
committed that was covered up by the law
enforcement cuz it screwed up it would
have screwed up the prosecution
I want that looked into there's also at
the end of the book there are these
texts watts and audio tapes that I found
out about in 2008 when Watson turned
himself in when he found he was alerted
and in Texas he was at his parents house
there they called the police called the
local sheriff who was Texas cousin and
his parents and said he's wanted for
questioning in these unsolved tape
murders and this was November 29th
nobody had been identified publicly as
suspects the police were just starting
to figure out that these people had
killed their victims so to LAPD flew
down to Texas
Watson was brought into the station
questioned by the LAPD put under arrest
they had to extradite him so that the
sheriff their Texas cousin put him in a
Cell the family called up a lawyer Bill
Boyd who had actually represented Tex on
a college case when he stole a
typewriter from a college and a prank
Bill Boyd told me in an interview in
2008 that that day he had Tex tell him
the whole story or Charles as he called
him about how he met Manson
why the murders were committed how they
happened he said he spoke to me for 20
hours and he goes I've got all those
audio tapes in a safe in my office he
told me this in 2008 he said he also
described other murders that the family
had committed that hadn't been connected
to them so right away when you know I'm
in 2009 I'm working on it that long I
thought other murders that's important
to me but more important
did he tell his attorney why the murders
really happened you know why they picked
those houses you know this was the first
account that was recorded the next one
was Susan Atkins
about a week later after she had gotten
her new attorney that the prosecution
planted they audio taped her telling her
version which became the official
version so Watsons would predate that by
a week and when I found out that they
were in that safe and he's telling me
this on the phone I thought why he he
can't play that to me because that would
violate Watson's attorney-client
privilege but I thought I have to ask so
I said is there any chance mr. Boyd I
could come down and listen to those
tapes and he said that's when he
realized he shouldn't have told him he
said oh well I I couldn't do that
without Charles Watson Charles
permission like oh he's still in touch
with me go so I write to him every now
and then he writes me he didn't
represent him at trial after he was
extradited and I said would you please
ask so that began three or four months
of me pestering him he would never take
the phone call and then finally after
four months I called up in his secretary
said I'm sorry mr. Boies in China on
business today and I said well you have
to tell him I'm not gonna wait anymore
I'm gonna write to Charles and tell him
what he told me I go if there's other
bodies I mean I didn't let them know
that I was more interested in the motive
story but I said if there's and I was
interested in this too I go if there's
other bodies or victims out there who
have never been on connected or even I
only know if the remains were uncovered
because there's a lot of
evidence that there might have been
people killed out in the desert and
buried there I go I need to know that
and she said okay I'll tell him
my phone rang like literally 30 seconds
after I hung it up and I had call her
idea that was from his Texas office goes
this is Bill Boyd you cannot call
Charles and tell him I told you that I
said mr. Boyd you haven't called me back
for four months it goes what I'm telling
you now you can't do that I go well are
you gonna you know get his permission he
goes yeah you just have to be patient I
go I can't wait anymore he says if you
do that and you tell him Alton I ever
telling you I said it's all on tape I
taped that call because you didn't have
permission to tape that call go yeah you
gave me permission at the beginning and
that's on tape - it goes god damn it you
journalists and he hung up on me you
journalists lumped in with all of them
you know he said my wife said you're his
wife was a TV he does my wife said I
know how you people work I go you gave
me permission it's on the audiotape so
he died six months later on the
treadmill oh my god thinking about you
and his his firm went bankrupt and then
it was until two or three years later
and it's all in there the back story but
I finally went to try to get the tapes
again and found out he had died found
out that the tapes were in the
possession of the trustee who was you
know waiting for the bankruptcy to be of
all resolved and it took me three four
months of back and forth and to try to
get them to release the tapes to me and
I made an argument for why they weren't
protected anymore again long story short
I was sharing information with the
deputy da in Los Angeles who I thought
was friendly he was until he wasn't and
he was handling all the parole hearings
of the Manson Family a guy named Pat
Sakura the woman who was in charge of
the tapes the trustee said if secure
calls me and tells me that it's okay for
me to release them to you and explains
how it's not a violation I'll do it I
said Alaskan so I asked me said
absolutely I want to talk to her
and I said great a day later I get a
call from secure because you're not
gonna believe it she's releasing the
tapes to us
I go you he goes yeah yeah don't worry
I'll let you hear him when we get him
she asked I knew right then I had lost
any kind of control and sure enough
number one the trustee had to notify
Watson's new attorney Watson put up a
fight in court and it's in you can read
about in the other times I reported on
that for about a year for about a year
it went from the local court to the
state Supreme Court with a judge finally
ruled that the LAPD should have the
tapes they sent two officers down to get
the tapes in 2013 they came back and
then nobody at the DA's office would
talk to me anymore the promise that had
been made that I would be the first one
to listen to them reneged those tapes a
million journalists have made Freedom of
Information Act requests for them they
won't release them they're locked up
Leslie Manhattan's attorney wants them
he thinks it'll help her at her parole
hearings because he thinks there's
information on there to show that she's
been telling the truth all these years
he's gone to the state Supreme Court
through other courts they blocked them
down it's 20 hours first account of how
and why these murders occurred and
they're not releasing them I think it's
because the truth is on there oh is that
true
I mean yeah you've got a wide audience
maybe other people will come forward I
would just be happy if some paper like
the time LA Times the New York Times
Washington Post assigned some reporters
just to go through my reporting and see
if I've made shit up or if it all plays
out and then does a little bit of
additional reporting a lot of these
people are dying you know they're
getting all but a lot of them are still
alive and they could be interviewed well
I hope they do Tom anybody go get this
chaos Charles Manson the CIA the secret
history the 60s Tom O'Neill it's amazing
Tom let me say one more thing please if
people want to see the actual documents
I have an Instagram and a Facebook page
where I put them up there's also
excerpts of my interviews with bully
Ossie Manson
okay some of the really important stuff
where I put the audiotapes up so what
you can't get in the book or even in the
footnotes you can see online if you just
google my name Manson and Instagram or
Facebook there it is right there yeah
yeah that's you Charles Mann and if you
scroll down tons of that stuff thank you
so much okay let's shake hands yeah yeah
we shake hands ooh you got we got tested
right before this I know it's a
requirement for coming in this room yes
I know thanks for letting me know that I
mean I was so it was a distraction for
not being nervous about this worried
about my test results well we got it and
we got the book and a really appreciate
you man that was really really a lot of
fun I really really enjoyed it thank you
very much I appreciate it all right bye
everybody fits told me
[Music]